.\"
.\" Project   : tin - a Usenet newsreader
.\" Module    : tin.1
.\" Author    : I. Lea, U. Janssen
.\" Created   : 1991-08-23
.\" Updated   : 2009-12-24
.\" Notes     : use american english; still needs some work, e.g.:
.\"             - document authorization (.newsauth)
.\"             - document random organization feature
.\"
.\"
.TH tin 1 "December 24th, 2009" "1.9.5" "A Usenet newsreader"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
tin, rtin \- A Usenet newsreader
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tin
.RB [\|[\| \-h \||\| \-H \||\| \-V \|]\ \||
.RB [\|[\|[\| \-a \|]
.RB [\| \-dlnq \||\| \-Q \|]
.RB [\| \-ArzxX \|]\|]
.RB [\|[\| \-R \||\| \-S \|]
.RB \|\| \-s
.IR News_dir \|]
.RB [\| \-cuvZ \|]
.RB [\| \-N \||\| \-M
.IR address \|]
.RB [\| \-o \||\| \-w \|]\|]
.RB [\| \-D
.IR debug_level \|]
.RB [\| \-G
.IR article_limit \|]
.RB [\| \-f
.IR newsrc_file \|]
.RB [\| \-g
.IR server \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR Mail_dir \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR port \|]
.RB [\| \-I
.IR index_dir \|]\ \|[ newsgroup \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]\|]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tin
is a full-screen easy to use Usenet newsreader. It can read news locally
(e.g., \fI/var/spool/news\fR) or remotely (\fBrtin\fP or \fBtin \-r\fP
option) via a NNTP (Network News Transport Protocol) server. It will
automatically utilize NOV
.BR newsoverview (5)
style index files if available locally or via the NNTP [X]OVER command
(\fBRFC2980\fP, \fBRFC3977\fP).
.PP
.B tin
has four separate levels of operation: Selection level, Group level,
Thread level and Article level. Use the \fBHelp\fP ('\fBh\fP')
command to view a list of the commands available at a particular
level.
.PP
On startup \fBtin\fP will show a list of the newsgroups found in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR. An arrow '\->' or highlighted
bar will point to the first newsgroup. Move to a group by using the
terminal arrow keys (terminal dependent) or \fBDown\fP ('\fBj\fP')
and \fBUp\fP ('\fBk\fP'). Use PgUp/PgDn (terminal dependent) or
\fBPageUp\fP ('\fB^U\fP') (CTRL-U) and \fBPageDown\fP ('\fB^D\fP')
(CTRL-D) to page up/down. Enter a newsgroup by pressing '\fB<CR>\fP'.
.PP
The \fBGroupNextUnreadArtOrGrp\fP ('\fB<TAB>\fP') key enters the next
newsgroup with unread articles.
.\"
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Interactive mode:
.RS +.5i
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B 1
Usage, syntax, configuration file or network error.
.RE
.PP
Batch mode (''\fB\-Z\fP''):
.RS +.5i
.TP
.B 0
No unread news
.TP
.B 1
Usage, syntax, configuration file or network error.
.TP
.B 2
Unread news
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-a
Toggle ANSI color (default is off).
.TP
.B \-A
Force authentication on initial connect.
.TP
.B \-c
Create/update index files for every group in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR or file specified by the ''\fB\-f\fP''
option and mark all articles as read.
.TP
.B \-d
Don't load newsgroup descriptions (interactive mode).
.TP
.BI \-D " debug-level"
Enter debug-level (1 = NNTP, 2 = filter, 4 = newsrc, 8 = threading, 16 =
memory, 32 = attributes, 64 = misc).
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
Use the specified file of subscribed to newsgroups in place of
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR.
.TP
.BI \-g " server"
Use the server and newsrc specified in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/newsrctable\fR.
.TP
.BI \-G " article-limit"
Limit the number of articles/group to retrieve from the server.
.TP
.B \-h
Help listing all command-line options.
.TP
.B \-H
Brief introduction to \fBtin\fP that is also shown the first time it is
started.
.TP
.BI \-I " dir"
Directory in which to store newsgroup index files. Default is
\fI${TIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR:\-"${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.news\fR.
This option has no effect if \fBtin\fP retrieves its index files via
NNTP and \fBcache_overview_files\fP is turned off.
.TP
.BI \-l
Get number of articles per group from the
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file. If
reading via NNTP this is done with the LIST command (\fBRFC3977\fP). This
might result in incorrect article counts but is usually faster than the
default which is to read the
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file
(either directly or via LIST) and then check the article count via
NNTP GROUP command (\fBRFC3977\fP) ''\fB\-ln\fP''.
.TP
.BI \-m " dir"
Mailbox directory to use. Default is \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/Mail\fR.
.TP
.BI \-M " user"
Mail unread articles to specified user for later reading. For more
information read section "AUTOMATIC MAILING AND SAVING NEW NEWS".
.TP
.B \-n
Only load groups from the
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file that are
subscribed to in the user's \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR. This
allows a noticeable speedup when connecting via a slow line, but \fBtin\fP
can not tell which groups are moderated. See also ''\fB\-l\fP''.
.TP
.B \-N
Mail unread articles to yourself for later reading. For more information
read section "AUTOMATIC MAILING AND SAVING NEW NEWS".
.TP
.B \-o
Quick post all postponed articles and exit. In order for this to be really
quick, it should be used with ''\fB\-n\fP'' if possible.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Port to use if reading via NNTP (default is 119). This also overrides
the environment variable $\fBNNTPPORT\fP if set.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't check for new newsgroups.
.TP
.B \-Q
Quick start. Start \fBtin\fP as quickly as possible. Currently this is
equivalent to ''\fB\-nqd\fP''.
.TP
.B \-r
Read news remotely from the default NNTP server specified in the environment
variable $\fBNNTPSERVER\fP or contained in the file
\fI/etc/nntpserver\fR.
.TP
.B \-R
Read news saved by the ''\fB\-S\fP'' option.
.TP
.BI \-s " dir"
Save/read articles to/in directory. Default is
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/News\fR.
.TP
.B \-S
Save unread articles for later reading by the ''\fB\-R\fP'' option. For more
information read section "AUTOMATIC MAILING AND SAVING NEW NEWS".
.TP
.B \-u
Create/update index files for every group in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR or file specified by the ''\fB\-f\fP''
option. This option is disabled if \fBtin\fP retrieves its index files via a
NNTP server and \fBcache_overview_files\fP is turned off.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode for ''\fB\-c\fP'', ''\fB\-M\fP'', ''\fB\-N\fP'', ''\fB\-S\fP'',
\&''\fB\-u\fP'' and ''\fB\-Z\fP'' options.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and date information.
.TP
.B \-w
Quick mode to post an article and then exit. In order for this to be really
quick, it should be used with ''\fB\-n\fP'' if possible.
.TP
.B \-x
No posting mode. You cannot post articles if you use this option.
.TP
.B \-X
No overwrite mode. \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR and files in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin\fR
will not be overwritten but may be created if they don't exist.
.TP
.B \-z
Only start \fBtin\fP if there is any new/unread news. If there is news
\fBtin\fP will position cursor at first group with unread news. Useful for
putting in login file.
.TP
.B \-Z
Check if there is any new/unread news and exit with appropriate status. If
\&''\fB\-v\fP'' option is specified the number of unread articles in each
group is printed. An exit code 0 indicates no news, 1 that an error occurred
and 2 that new/unread news exists. Useful for writing scripts.
.PP
\fBtin\fP can also dynamically change its options by the \fBOptionMenu\fP
('\fBM\fP') command. Any changes are written to
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR. For more information see section
"GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES" and
.BR tin (5).
.PP
A list of groups can be specified after the other command-line options. This
can be useful if you wish to yank in or subscribe to a hand-picked subset of
the active newsgroups. See the section "NEWSGROUP LISTS & WILDCARDS" for the
types of pattern that \fBtin\fP understands.
.PP
If you specify a single group-name, or a wildcard that matches a single
group, then you will automatically enter that group. Otherwise the normal
group selection screen will appear, but with all the matching groups present
too, as though you had yanked just those groups in.
.PP
With the ''\fB-w\fP'' flag a given group-name is used as default group to post
to. If more than one group or a wildcard is specified only the first group
respectively the first group that matches is used.
.PP
Once you use \fBSelectYankActive\fP ('\fBy\fP') to yank in all active groups,
or \fBSelectToggleReadDisplay\fP ('\fBr\fP') to toggle the read/unread
status, then the command-line groups will be gone. You can use
\fBSelectSyncWithActive\fP ('\fBY\fP') to reread the
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file and get
them back.
.PP
NB: With the ''\fB\-n\fP'' flag, only unsubscribed groups in the
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR file (or the newsrc-file given by the
\&''\fB\-f\fP'' command-line switch or via
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/newsrctable\fR) can be matched.
.PP
Command-line options have higher priority than attributes and tinrc options.
Thus, command-line option takes precedence over configured values.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.\"
.\"
.SS "NEWS ADMINISTRATION"
Maintaining Netnews on large networks of machines can be a pretty time
consuming job as I discovered when I was given the job of maintaining our
news system and news users.
.PP
A user starting \fBtin\fP for the first time can be automatically subscribed
to a list of newsgroups that are deemed appropriate by the news
administrator. The subscriptions file should be created in your news lib
directory (i.e., \fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/subscriptions\fR) and should
have file permissions set to 0644. If you read news via NNTP, then your news
server must support the LIST SUBSCRIPTIONS command. It is part of the Common
NNTP Extensions (\fBRFC2980\fP) and all modern servers should understand it.
.\"
.\"
.SS "SCREEN FORMAT"
\fBtin\fP has four separate levels of operation: Selection level,
Group level, Thread level and Article level.
.PP
At the Selection level the title displays (the name of the newsserver
and) the number of subscribed groups (containing new unread articles). The
newsgroups are displayed in the middle of the screen with the number of
unread articles displayed on the same line in front.
.PP
.\" FIXME - make this autoscale
.nf
\->M    1     2  comp.security.announce  Announcements from the CERT abou
  M    2     1  news.admin.announce     Announcements for news adminstra
       3    22  news.software.misc      News-related software other than
       4  1475  news.software.nntp      The Network News Transfer Protoc
  X    5   124  news.software.readers   Discussion of software used to r
.fi
.PP
There may also be a character prefixing the line. An explanation follows:
.TP 10
.B u
This group is unsubscribed. To see only your subscribed groups use the
\fBSelectToggleReadDisplay\fP ('\fBr\fP') or \fBSelectYankActive\fP
('\fBy\fP') toggle keys.
.TP
.B M
This is a moderated group. Any posts you make will have to be approved by
the group administrator before it will be made public. \fBtin\fP will ask
for confirmation before you post to a moderated group.
.TP
.B N
This is a new newsgroup which has been created since you last used
\fBtin\fP. New newsgroups are not subscribed to by default (However, see
the $\fBAUTOSUBSCRIBE\fP / $\fBAUTOUNSUBSCRIBE\fP environment variables).
Subscribe to it in the normal way if you wish the group to continue to
appear in your Selection Menu. Simply ignore new newsgroups and they will be
gone the next time you start \fBtin\fP. You will have to yank in all the
groups to find them in a later session.
.TP
.B D
This group no longer exists. If you no longer wish to see this group then
unsubscribe from it in the normal way. This flag will only appear if
you have set \fBstrip_bogus\fP to "ask" in the Options Menu.
.TP
.B X
You may no longer make posts to this group. Often a group will be superseded
by a more appropriately named one.
.TP
.B =
This group has been renamed and you may no longer post to it. If you do,
then you will receive an error from your newsserver telling you the correct
group to post to.
.PP
At the Group level the title contains the name of the group, the number of
conversation threads, the threading method, the limit of articles to get,
the total number of articles, the number of hot articles, the number of
recent articles and the number of killed articles. I.e.:
.PP
.nf
.\" FIXME - make this autocenter
            alt.sources (5B \-50/23+ 0* 3o 0K)
.fi
.PP
The characters after the numbers are depending to the configuration and if
your are in \fBshow_only_unread_arts\fP mode or not. Some numbers could be
missing if the specific option is not enabled. It might also contain an 'M',
\&'X' or '=' (see above; doesn't work with the ''\fB\-n\fP'' command-line
switch!) if the group is moderated, set to no posting or postings to it get
redirected.
.PP
If a thread has unread articles in it it's marked with a
\fBart_marked_unread\fP in front of the total number of articles in the
thread. If there are recent articles within the thread it might be marked
with \fBart_marked_recent\fP in front of the total number of articles in the
thread - this is controlled by the \fBrecent_time\fP option. If a thread has
hot articles in it (see also section "FILTERING ARTICLES") it's marked with
\fBart_marked_selected\fP in front of the total number of articles in the
thread. The number of lines of the first (unread) article in the thread
might also be shown right before the subject - this is controlled by the
\fBshow_info\fP option.
.PP
.\" FIXME - make this autoscale
.nf
                de.admin.net-abuse.announce (11B 13+ 1* 1o 0K) M

\->   1   +   3  108 bincancels in de.talk.sex        Christopher Lueg <l
     2   +       69 EMP/ECP gecancelt. xynx. BI= 10  Henning Weede <hwee
     3   o       93 EMP gecancelt. SouthBeach/Palms  Henning Weede <hwee
     4   *      368 <1997-11-12> Fremdcancel-FAQ     Thomas Roessler <ro
.fi
.PP
At the Thread level the screen usually (depends on the threading method
used) looks like this:
.\" FIXME - add description of fields
.PP
.\" FIXME - make this autoscale
.nf
\->   1      [   7]  What is this funny tree in the thr  Robert F. Simmig
     2      [  12]  +\->                                 Sephan Wagner <s
     3      [ 230]  | `\->Tin thread-level (was: What is Bob Johnson <bob
     4      [  22]  `\->tin threading menu               Brian Richardson

.fi
.PP
At the Article level the page header has the following format:
.\" FIXME - add description of fields
.PP
.\" FIXME - make this autoscale
.nf
Sun, 28 Dec 1997 21:21:01   de.admin.news.groups      Thread   20 of 86
Lines 50   Re: EINSPRUCH zu RESULT:de.comm.mobil.ALL   Article  47 of 59
Urs Janssen <urs@akk.org>        at Arbeitskreis Kultur und Kommunikati

article-body
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SS "COMMON MOVING KEYS"
This table shows the common keys used for moving around all levels
within \fBtin\fP.
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'Beg. of list/article  'u +\w'ANSI/vt100   'u
	ANSI/vt100	Other Terminals
Beg. of list/article	\fBHome\fP	\fBFirstPage\fP (\fB^\fP)
End of list/article	\fBEnd\fP	\fBLastPage\fP (\fB$\fP)
Page Up	\fBPgUp\fP	\fBPageUp\fP (\fBu\fP, \fB^U\fP or \fB^B\fP)
Page Down	\fBPgDn\fP	\fBPageDown\fP (\fB^D\fP or \fB^F\fP or \fB<SPACE>\fP)
Line Up	\fBUp arrow\fP	\fBUp\fP (\fBk\fP or \fB^P\fP)
Line Down	\fBDown arrow\fP	\fBDown\fP (\fBj\fP or \fB^N\fP)
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS "COMMON EDITING COMMANDS"
An emacs style editing package allows the easy editing of input strings.
An history list allows the easy reuse of previously entered strings.
In addition to the cursor keys, the following commands are available when
editing a string:
.PP
.TP 10
.B ^A, ^E
move to beginning or end of line, respectively.
.TP
.B ^F, ^B
non-destructive move forward or back one location, respectively.
.TP
.B ^D
delete the character currently under the cursor, or send EOF if no
characters in the buffer.
.TP
.B ^H, <DEL>
delete character left of the cursor.
.TP
.B ^K
delete from cursor to end of line.
.TP
.B ^P, ^N
move through history, previous and next, respectively.
.TP
.B ^L, ^R
redraw the current line.
.TP
.B <CR>
places line on history list if non-blank, appends newline and returns
to the caller.
.TP
.B <ESC>
aborts the present editing operation.
.\"
.\"
.SS "GLOBAL COMMANDS"
The following commands are available at all 4 menu levels and always have
the same effect.
.PP
.TP 10
.B ShellEscape '!'
Shell escape. \fBShellEscape\fP by itself will launch a shell,
\fBShellEscape\fP <command> will run an external <command>. This facility
may have been disabled by the System Administrator.
.TP
.B ToggleColor '&'
Toggle use of ANSI color.
.TP
.B RedrawScr '^L'
Redraw the current screen.
.TP
.B ScrollUp '<'
Scroll screen up by one line.
.TP
.B ScrollDown '>'
Scroll screen down by one line.
.TP
.B Postponed 'O' '^O'
Reload postponed article. If your system blocks the \fBPostponed\fP key you
must quote it by pressing '\fB^V\fP' (CTRL-V) first. The postpone-menu
offers the following actions: \fBPromptYes\fP ('\fBy\fP') = reload and spawn
editor; \fBPostponeOverride\fP ('\fBY\fP') = post article (without spawning
editor); \fBPostponeAll\fP ('\fBA\fP') = post all postponed articles
(without spawning editor); \fBPromptNo\fP ('\fBn\fP') = skip this article;
\fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP') = quit postponed menu. Currently there is no 'simple'
way to delete a postponed article from the postponed-file, you have to use
the following command sequence instead: reload it with \fBPostponed\fP,
enter editor with \fBPromptYes\fP, quit editor, discard posting with
\fBQuit\fP ('\fB^O\fP''\fBy\fP''\fBq\fP'). See also ''\fB\-o\fP''
command-line switch.
.TP
.B Help 'h'
Help screen of commands available on the current menu. You can use
\fBSearchSubjF\fP ('\fB/\fP'), \fBSearchSubjB\fP ('\fB?\fP') and
\fBSearchRepeat\fP ('\fB\\\fP') to search on this screen. \fBQuit\fP
('\fBq\fP') returns to the menu.
.TP
.B ToggleHelpDisplay 'H'
Toggle the display of help mini menu at the bottom of the screen.
.TP
.B DisplayPostHist 'W'
List articles posted by user. The date posted, the newsgroup and the
subject are listed. You can use \fBSearchSubjF\fP ('\fB/\fP'),
\fBSearchSubjB\fP ('\fB?\fP') and \fBSearchRepeat\fP ('\fB\\\fP') to
search on this screen. \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP') returns to the menu.
.TP
.B Version 'v'
Print \fBtin\fP version information.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "NEWSGROUP SELECTION COMMANDS"
.TP 10
.B 4
Select group 4.
.TP
.B SelectResetNewsrc '^R'
Reset \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR file. This will destroy all
records of which articles have been read, so use this carefully.
.TP
.B SetRange '#'
Choose a range of articles to be affected by the next command. See the
section "RANGES" for more information.
.TP
.B SelectSortActive '.'
Sort the list of newsgroups.
.TP
.B SearchRepeat '\\\\'
Repeat the previous search.
.TP
.B SearchSubjF '/'
Search for a group by name and description (if displayed).
.TP
.B SearchSubjB '?'
Backward search through the group names and descriptions.
.TP
.B SelectReadGrp '^J' '<CR>'
Read current group.
.TP
.B SelectEnterNextUnreadGrp '<TAB>' 'n'
Enter next group with unread news. Will wrap around to the beginning of the
group selection list looking for unread groups.
.TP
.B Catchup 'c'
Make current group as all read [after confirmation] and move to the next
group in the group selection list.
.TP
.B CatchupNextUnread 'C'
Mark current group as all read [after confirmation] and enter the next
unread group in the group selection list.
.TP
.B SelectToggleDescriptions 'd'
Toggle display to show just the group name or the group name and the group
descriptions.
.TP
.B EditFilter 'E'
Edit the filter file and reload it afterwards.
.TP
.B SelectGoto 'g'
Choose a new group by name. This command can be used to access any group,
even those not currently yanked in.
.TP
.B ToggleInfoLastLine 'i'
Toggle the display of the description of the current newsgroup in the last
line. This will not be available if \fBtin\fP was started with the
\&''\fB\-d\fP'' option.
.TP
.B ToggleInverseVideo 'I'
Toggle inverse video.
.TP
.B SelectMoveGrp 'm'
Move the current group within the group selection list. By entering '1' the
group will become the first displayed group in the list, by entering '8' the
eighth group in the list etc. By entering '$' the group will be the last
group displayed.
.TP
.B OptionMenu 'M'
User configurable options menu (for more information see section "GLOBAL
OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES").
.TP
.B SelectNextUnreadGrp 'N'
Positions the cursor on the next group with unread articles in it.
.TP
.B Quit 'q'
Quit \fBtin\fP - ask the user to confirm if \fBconfirm_choice\fP is
set accordingly.
.TP
.B QuitTin 'Q'
Quit \fBtin\fP - don't ask the user to confirm.
.TP
.B SelectToggleReadDisplay 'r'
Toggle display of all subscribed to groups and just those groups containing
unread articles. Command has no effect if groups were specified on the
command-line when \fBtin\fP was started.
.TP
.B BugReport 'R'
Mail a bug report or comment to <tin\-bugs@tin.org>. This is the best way of
getting bugs fixed and features added/changed.
.TP
.B SelectSubscribe 's'
Subscribe to current group.
.TP
.B SelectSubscribePat 'S'
Subscribe to groups matching user specified pattern. See the section
"NEWSGROUP LISTS & WILDCARDS" for the types of pattern that
\fBtin\fP understands.
.TP
.B SelectUnsubscribe 'u'
Unsubscribe to current group. This can be used to remove bogus groups.
See \fBstrip_bogus\fP in the "GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE
VARIABLES" section.
.TP
.B SelectUnsubscribePat 'U'
Unsubscribe to groups matching user specified pattern. See the section
"NEWSGROUP LISTS & WILDCARDS" for the types of pattern that
\fBtin\fP understands.
.TP
.B Post 'w'
Post an article to current group. If posting fails for some reason, you'll
get the chance to \fBPostEdit\fP ('\fBe\fP') the article again,
\fBPostPostpone\fP ('\fBo\fP') it for later processing (see also ''\fB\-o\fP''
command-line switch) or discard it via \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B SelectQuitNoWrite 'X'
Quit \fBtin\fP without saving any changes to the configuration.
.TP
.B SelectYankActive 'y'
Yanks in all groups. Toggles the displayed groups between all the groups in
the \fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file and just
those that are subscribed to in \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR.
.TP
.B SelectSyncWithActive 'Y'
Reread the \fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file
to see if any new news has arrived since starting \fBtin\fP.
.TP
.B SelectMarkGrpUnread 'z' 'Z'
Mark all articles in the current group as unread.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "GROUP INDEX COMMANDS"
.TP 10
.B 4
Select article 4.
.TP
.B MenuFilterSelect '^A'
Auto select article(s) using a menu. Read the section "FILTERING ARTICLES"
for more information.
.TP
.B MenuFilterKill '^K'
Kill article(s) using a menu. Read the section "FILTERING ARTICLES" for
more information.
.TP
.B MarkFeedRead '^X'
Mark current article, thread, range, auto-selected (hot) articles, articles
matching pattern or tagged articles as read. A prompt asks which type should
be marked.
.TP
.B MarkFeedUnread '^W'
Mark current article, thread, range, auto-selected (hot) articles, articles
matching pattern or tagged articles as unread. A prompt asks which type should
be marked.
.TP
.B SetRange '#'
Choose a range of articles to be affected by the next command. See the
section "RANGES" for more information.
.TP
.B LastViewed '\-'
Re-enter the last message that was viewed.
.TP
.B SearchRepeat '\\\\'
Repeat the previous search
.TP
.B SearchSubjF '/'
Search forward for specified subject.
.TP
.B SearchSubjB '?'
Search backward for specified subject.
.TP
.B GroupSelThd '*'
Select current thread for later processing.
.TP
.B GroupDoAutoSel '+'
Selects all threads in current group. It is a shortcut for calling
\fBGroupSelPattern\fP with a pattern of ''*''.
.TP
.B GroupToggleThdSel '\\.'
Toggle selection of current thread. If at least one unread article, (but not
every unread article) in the current thread is selected, then all unread
articles become selected.
.TP
.B GroupSelThdIfUnreadSelected ';'
For each thread in current group, if it at least one unread article is
selected, all unread articles become selected. This is useful for
auto-selection on author where reader wants to see entire thread.
.TP
.B GroupSelPattern '='
Prompts for a pattern with which to match on. All threads whose subjects
match the pattern will be marked selected. A pattern of ''*'' will match all
subjects. Entering just '\fB<CR>\fP' will re-use the last pattern that
was entered.
.TP
.B GroupReverseSel '@'
Reverse all selections on all articles.
.TP
.B GroupUndoSel '~'
Undo all selections on all articles. It clears the toggle effect of
\fBGroupMarkUnselArtRead\fP ('\fBX\fP') command. Thus after first doing a
\fBGroupMarkUnselArtRead\fP, one can then do \fBGroupUndoSel\fP to reset
articles. Thus, one can iteratively whittle down uninteresting threads.
.TP
.B Pipe '|'
Pipe current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles into command. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B QuickFilterSelect '['
Auto select article(s) with a single key [after confirmation]. The defaults
used for selection are based upon the following four tinrc config variables:
\fBdefault_filter_select_case\fP, \fBdefault_filter_select_expire\fP,
\fBdefault_filter_select_global\fP and \fBdefault_filter_select_header\fP.
Read the section "GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES" for
a full explanation of these variables and "FILTERING ARTICLES" for more
information on filtering.
.TP
.B QuickFilterKill ']'
Kill article(s) with a single key [after confirmation]. The defaults used
for killing are based upon the following four tinrc config variables:
\fBdefault_filter_kill_case\fP, \fBdefault_filter_kill_expire\fP,
\fBdefault_filter_kill_global\fP and \fBdefault_filter_kill_header\fP.
Read the section "GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES" for
a full explanation of these variables and "FILTERING ARTICLES" for more
information on filtering.
.TP
.B GroupReadBasenote '^J' '<CR>'
Read current article.
.TP
.B GroupNextUnreadArtOrGrp '<TAB>'
View next unread article or group.
.TP
.B SearchAuthF 'a'
Author forward search. This searches for articles with a specific ''From:''
line.
.TP
.B SearchAuthB 'A'
Author backward search. Otherwise, see \fBSearchAuthF\fP ('\fBa\fP') above.
.TP
.B SearchBody 'B'
Search the body of all articles in group (can be slow). You can abort the
search using \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B Catchup 'c'
Mark all articles as read [after confirmation] then return to the group
selection list. Move cursor to next group.
.TP
.B CatchupNextUnread 'C'
Mark all articles as read [after confirmation] and enter the next group
with unread news.
.TP
.B GroupToggleSubjDisplay 'd'
Cycle the display of the author through all the possible options
for the tinrc variable \fBshow_author\fP.
.TP
.B EditFilter 'E'
Edit the filter file and reload it afterwards.
.TP
.B GroupGoto 'g'
Choose a new group by name. This command can be used to access any group, even
those not currently yanked in.
.TP
.B GroupToggleGetartLimit 'G'
Toggle article/group limit.
.TP
.B ToggleInfoLastLine 'i'
Display the subject of the first article in the current thread in the last
line.
.TP
.B ToggleInverseVideo 'I'
Toggle inverse video.
.TP
.B GroupMarkThdRead 'K'
Mark article/thread as read and move onto the next unread article/thread. If
a range of articles/threads is set, the range will be marked as read instead
of the current article/thread. When tagged articles/threads are present, a
prompt asks how to proceed.
.TP
.B GroupListThd 'l'
Open the thread under the current cursor position.
.TP
.B LookupMessage 'L'
Look up article by ''Message\-ID:''.
.TP
.B GroupMail 'm'
Mail current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles to someone. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B OptionMenu 'M'
User configurable options menu (for more information see section "GLOBAL
OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES").
.TP
.B GroupNextGroup 'n'
Go to next group.
.TP
.B GroupNextUnreadArt 'N'
Go to next unread article.
.TP
.B Print 'o'
Send current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles to printer. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B GroupPrevGroup 'p'
Go to previous group.
.TP
.B GroupPrevUnreadArt 'P'
Go to previous unread article.
.TP
.B Quit 'q'
Return to previous level.
.TP
.B QuitTin 'Q'
Quit \fBtin\fP - don't ask the user to confirm.
.TP
.B GroupToggleReadUnread 'r'
Toggle the display between all articles and unread articles.
.TP
.B BugReport 'R'
Mail a bug report or comment to <tin\-bugs@tin.org>. This is the best way of
getting bugs fixed and features added/changed.
.TP
.B GroupSave 's'
Save current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles. See the section "MAILING PIPING PRINTING
REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B GroupAutoSave 'S'
Save marked articles automatically without further prompting.
.TP
.B GroupTag 't'
Toggle tag-status of current article / thread for \fBGroupMail\fP ('\fBm\fP')
/ \fBPipe\fP ('\fB|\fP') / \fBPrint\fP ('\fBo\fP') / \fBGroupSave\fP
('\fBs\fP') / \fBGroupRepost\fP ('\fBx\fP').
.TP
.B GroupTagParts 'T'
Automatically tag in order all the parts of the current multi-part message.
.TP
.B GroupToggleThreading 'u'
Cycle the threading mode through no threading, threading by subject,
threading by references, threading on both subject and references, group
multipart articles into a thread (''Subject:'' based).
.TP
.B GroupUntag 'U'
Untag all articles that were tagged.
.TP
.B Post 'w'
Post an article to current group. If posting fails for some reason, you'll
get the chance to edit the article again via \fBPostEdit\fP ('\fBe\fP'),
postpone it via \fBPostPostpone\fP ('\fBo\fP') for later processing (see
also ''\fB\-o\fP'' command-line switch) or discard it via \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B GroupRepost 'x'
Repost an already posted article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles /
articles matching pattern / tagged articles to another newsgroup(s). Useful
for reposting from global to local newsgroups. Do not use this to cross-post
your own articles.
.TP
.B GroupMarkUnselArtRead 'X'
Mark all unread articles that have not been selected as read, redraw screen
to reflect changes and put index at the first thread to begin reading.
Pressing \fBGroupMarkUnselArtRead\fP ('\fBX\fP') again will toggle back to
the way it was before. See \fBGroupUndoSel\fP ('\fB~\fP') command for
clearing the toggle effect, leaving the group will also clear the toggle
effect and make the changes permanent.
.TP
.B MarkArtUnread 'z'
Mark current article as unread.
.TP
.B MarkThdUnread 'Z'
Mark current thread as unread. If a range of threads is set, the range will
be marked as unread instead of the current thread. When tagged threads are
present, a prompt asks how to proceed.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "THREAD LISTING COMMANDS"
.\" this sections should be complete
.TP 10
.B 4
Select article 4 within thread.
.TP
.B MenuFilterSelect '^A'
Auto select article(s) using a menu. Read the section "FILTERING
ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B MenuFilterKill '^K'
Kill article(s) using a menu. Read the section "FILTERING ARTICLES"
for more information.
.TP
.B MarkFeedRead '^X'
Mark current article, thread, range, auto-selected (hot) articles, articles
matching pattern or tagged articles as read. A prompt asks which type should
be marked.
.TP
.B MarkFeedUnread '^W'
Mark current article, thread, range, auto-selected (hot) articles, articles
matching pattern or tagged articles as unread. A prompt asks which type should
be marked.
.TP
.B SetRange '#'
Choose a range of articles to be affected by the next command. See the
section "RANGES" for more information.
.TP
.B LastViewed '\-'
Re-enter the last message that was viewed.
.TP
.B SearchRepeat '\\\\'
Repeat the previous search.
.TP
.B SearchSubjF '/'
Search forward for a specified subject.
.TP
.B SearchSubjB '?'
Search backwards for a specified subject.
.TP
.B ThreadSelArt '*'
Select the current thread for later processing.
.TP
.B ThreadToggleArtSel '.'
Toggle selection of current article.
.TP
.B ThreadReverseSel '@'
Reverse article selections.
.TP
.B ThreadUndoSel '~'
Undo all selections on current thread.
.TP
.B Pipe '|'
Pipe current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles into command. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B ThreadReadArt '^J' '<CR>'
Read current article within thread.
.TP
.B ThreadReadNextArtOrThread '<TAB>'
View next unread article within thread.
.TP
.B SearchAuthF 'a'
Author forward search. This searches for articles with a specific ''From:''
line. The search will wrap over into the next thread if nothing is found in
the current one.
.TP
.B SearchAuthB 'A'
Author backward search. Otherwise, see \fBSearchAuthF\fP ('\fBa\fP') above.
.TP
.B SearchBody 'B'
Search the body of all articles in group (can be slow). You can abort the
search using \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B Catchup 'c'
Mark thread as read [after confirmation] and return to the group index page.
Move cursor to next thread.
.TP
.B CatchupNextUnread 'C'
Mark thread as read [after confirmation] and enter the next thread
containing unread news.
.TP
.B ThreadToggleSubjDisplay 'd'
Cycle the display of the author through all the possible options for the
tinrc variable \fBshow_author\fP.
.TP
.B EditFilter 'E'
Edit the filter file and reload it afterwards.
.TP
.B ToggleInfoLastLine 'i'
Display the subject of the current article in the last line.
.TP
.B ToggleInverseVideo 'I'
Toggle inverse video.
.TP
.B ThreadMarkArtRead 'K'
Mark article as read and move onto the next unread article. If a range
of articles is set, the range will be marked as read instead of the
current article. When tagged articles are present, a prompt asks how
to proceed.
.TP
.B LookupMessage 'L'
Look up article by ''Message\-ID:''.
.TP
.B ThreadMail 'm'
Mail current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles to someone. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B Print 'o'
Send current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles to printer. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B Quit 'q'
Return to previous level.
.TP
.B QuitTin 'Q'
Quit \fBtin\fP - don't ask the user to confirm.
.TP
.B BugReport 'R'
Mail a bug report or comment to <tin\-bugs@tin.org>. This is the best way
of getting bugs fixed and features added/changed.
.TP
.B ThreadSave 's'
Save current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles. See the section "MAILING PIPING PRINTING
REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B ThreadAutoSave 'S'
Save marked articles automatically without further prompting.
.TP
.B ThreadTag 't'
Toggle tag status of current article for mailing, piping, printing, saving
or reposting.
.TP
.B ThreadUntag 'U'
Untag all tagged threads.
.TP
.B Post 'w'
Post an article to current group. If posting fails for some reason, you'll
get the chance to edit the article again via \fBPostEdit\fP
('\fBe\fP'), postpone it for later processing via \fBPostPostpone\fP
('\fBo\fP') (see also ''\fB\-o\fP'' command-line switch) or discard it via
\fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B MarkArtUnread 'z'
Mark current article in thread as unread. If a range of articles is set,
the range will be marked as unread instead of the current article. When
tagged articles are present, a prompt asks how to proceed.
.TP
.B MarkThdUnread 'Z'
Mark all articles in thread as unread.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "ARTICLE VIEWER COMMANDS"
.\" FIXME - refine descriptions
.TP 10
.B 0
Read the first (base) article in this thread.
.TP
.B 4
Read response 4 in this thread.
.TP
.B MenuFilterSelect '^A'
Auto select article(s) using a menu. Read the section "FILTERING ARTICLES"
for more information.
.TP
.B PageReplyQuoteHeaders '^E'
Reply through mail to the author of the current article with a copy of the
article with all headers included.
.TP
.B PagePGPCheckArticle '^G'
Perform
.BR pgp (1)
operations on article.
.TP
.B PageToggleHeaders '^H'
Toggles the display mode (raw including all headers vs. cooked).
.TP
.B MenuFilterKill '^K'
Kill article(s) using a menu. Read the section "FILTERING ARTICLES" for more
information.
.TP
.B PageToggleTabs '^T'
Toggle the TAB width between 4 and 8 characters.
.TP
.B PageFollowupQuoteHeaders '^W'
Post a followup to the current article with a copy of the article with all
headers included.
.TP
.B PageToggleTex2iso '\&"'
Toggle TeX to ISO decoding for current article. The default behavior is
taken from the \fBtex2iso_conv\fP variable in the tinrc file.
.TP
.B PageToggleRot '%'
Toggle ROT-13 decoding for this article.
.TP
.B PageToggleUue '('
Toggle the display of uuencoded sections. The default behavior is
taken from the \fBhide_uue\fP variable in the tinrc file.
.TP
.B PageReveal ')'
The formfeed character (^L) is often used to hide 'spoilers' that the
reader may not initially wish to see when viewing an article. Any text
after a formfeed is not displayed. This key-press acts like a reveal key
and turns the hidden text back on. Scrolling down will also reveal the text,
scrolling up will hide it again.
.TP
.B LastViewed '\-'
Re-enter the last message that was viewed.
.TP
.B SearchRepeat '\\\\'
Repeat the previous search.
.TP
.B SearchSubjF '/'
Forward search the text of this article.
.TP
.B SearchSubjB '?'
Backward search the text of this article.
.TP
.B PageSkipIncludedText ':'
Skip to the end of the next quoted text\-block in this article. Quoted text
is everything which matches \fBquote_regex\fP, \fBquote_regex2\fP or
\fBquote_regex3\fP.
.TP
.B PageTopThd '<'
Goto the first article in the current thread.
.TP
.B PageBotThd '>'
Goto the last article in the current thread.
.TP
.B PageToggleHighlight '_'
Toggle word highlighting on/off.
.TP
.B Pipe '|'
Pipe current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles into command. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B QuickFilterSelect '['
Auto select article(s) with a single key. The defaults used for selection
are set based upon the following four tinrc config variables:
\fBdefault_filter_select_case\fP, \fBdefault_filter_select_expire\fP,
\fBdefault_filter_select_global\fP and \fBdefault_filter_select_header\fP
Read the section "GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES" for
a full explanation of these variables and "FILTERING ARTICLES" for more
information on filtering.
.TP
.B QuickFilterKill ']'
Kill article(s) with a single key. The defaults used for killing are based
upon the following four tinrc config variables:
\fBdefault_filter_kill_case\fP, \fBdefault_filter_kill_expire\fP,
\fBdefault_filter_kill_global\fP and \fBdefault_filter_kill_header\fP.
Read the section "GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES" for
a full explanation of these variables and "FILTERING ARTICLES" for more
information on filtering.
.TP
.B PageNextThd '^J' '<CR>'
Goto next base article.
.TP
.B PageNextUnread '<TAB>'
Goto next unread article. If the tinrc variable \fBgoto_next_unread\fP
doesn't contain PageNextUnread, then this key will first page through the
current article.
.TP
.B SearchAuthF 'a'
Author forward search.
.TP
.B SearchAuthB 'A'
Author backward search.
.TP
.B SearchBody 'B'
Search the body of all articles in group (can be slow). You can abort the
search using \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B Catchup 'c'
Mark the current thread as read [after confirmation] and return to the
previous menu. Move cursor to next item.
.TP
.B CatchupNextUnread 'C'
Mark the rest of the current thread as read [after confirmation] and enter
the next thread with unread articles.
.TP
.B PageCancel 'D'
Cancel (delete) or supersede (overwrite) the current article. It must
have been posted by the same user. The cancel message can be seen in
the newsgroup 'control' or 'control.cancel'.
.TP
.B PageEditArticle 'e'
Edit the current article. This is restricted to mailgroups and saved news.
.TP
.B EditFilter 'E'
Edit the filter file and reload it afterwards.
.TP
.B PageFollowupQuote 'f'
Post a followup to the current article with a copy of the article included.
.TP
.B PageFollowup 'F'
Post a followup to the current article without including a copy of the
article.
.TP
.B PageFirstPage 'g'
Goto the start of the article.
.TP
.B PageLastPage 'G'
Goto the end of the article.
.TP
.B ToggleInfoLastLine 'i'
Display the subject of the current article in the last line.
.TP
.B ToggleInverseVideo 'I'
Toggle inverse video.
.TP
.B PageKillThd 'K'
Mark rest of thread as read and move onto the next unread thread.
.TP
.B PageListThd 'l'
Show the thread menu that the current article is a part of.
.TP
.B LookupMessage 'L'
Look up article by ''Message\-ID:''.
.TP
.B PageMail 'm'
Mail current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles to someone. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B OptionMenu 'M'
User configurable options menu (for more information see section "GLOBAL
OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES").
.TP
.B PageNextArt 'n'
Go to the next article.
.TP
.B PageNextUnreadArt 'N'
Go to the next unread article.
.TP
.B Print 'o'
Send current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles to printer. See the section "MAILING
PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B PagePrevArt 'p'
Go to the previous article.
.TP
.B PagePrevUnreadArt 'P'
Go to the previous unread article.
.TP
.B Quit 'q'
Return to the previous level.
.TP
.B QuitTin 'Q'
Quit \fBtin\fP - don't ask the user to confirm.
.TP
.B PageReplyQuote 'r'
Reply through mail to the author of the current article with a copy of the
article included.
.TP
.B PageReply 'R'
Reply through mail to the author of the current article without including
the original article.
.TP
.B PageSave 's'
Save current article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles / articles
matching pattern / tagged articles. See the section "MAILING PIPING PRINTING
REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES" for more information.
.TP
.B PageAutoSave 'S'
Save marked articles automatically without further prompting.
.TP
.B PageTag 't'
Toggle tag status of current article for mailing, piping, printing, saving
or reposting.
.TP
.B PageGroupSel 'T'
Return to group selection level.
.TP
.B PageGotoParent 'u'
Goto parent article.
.TP
.B PageViewUrl 'U'
Browse URLs in article. All URLs will be prompted in turn and opened
using the \fBurl_handler\fP. '\fB<ESC>\fP' or no input will skip the
URL.
.TP
.B PageViewAttach 'V'
View or save multimedia attachments.
.TP
.B Post 'w'
Post an article to the current group. If posting fails for some reason,
you'll get the chance to edit the article again via \fBPostEdit\fP
('\fBe\fP'), postpone it for later processing via \fBPostPostpone\fP
('\fBo\fP') (see also ''\fB\-o\fP'' command-line switch) or discard it
via \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
.B PageRepost 'x'
Repost an already posted article / thread / auto-selected (hot) articles /
articles matching pattern / tagged articles to another newsgroup(s). Useful
for reposting from global to local newsgroups. Do not use this to crosspost
your own articles.
.TP
.B MarkArtUnread 'z'
Mark article as unread.
.TP
.B MarkThdUnread 'Z'
Mark the current thread as unread.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SS "GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU AND TINRC CONFIGURABLE VARIABLES"
.\" FIXME - add missing descriptions
At startup, \fBtin\fP reads in the configuration files (see also
.BR tin (5)).
They contain a list of variables that can be used to configure the way
\fBtin\fP works. If it exists, the global configuration file,
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/tinrc\fR is read. After that, the user's own
configuration file is read from \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR. The
global file is useful for distributing system-wide defaults to new users who
have no private tinrc yet.
.PP
The variables are user configurable by editing
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR directly. Most of them can also be
set in the GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU which is accessed by pressing
\fBOptionMenu\fP ('\fBM\fP') at all levels. It allows the user to customize
the behavior of \fBtin\fP. The options are saved to the file
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR when you exit \fBtin\fP so don't
edit the file directly whilst \fBtin\fP is running.
.PP
In the options menu use the cursor keys in the usual way to move around. Use
\fBConfigSelect\fP ('\fB^J\fP' or '\fB<CR>\fP') to 'open' the option you
wish to change. You will need to enter a new value or use '\fB<SPACE>\fP' to
toggle the available options. \fBConfigSelect\fP will save the new value,
\&'\fB<ESC>\fP' will abort without saving changes.
.PP
As with the other menus, \fBRedrawScr\fP ('\fB^L\fP') will redraw the
screen. You can use \fBSearchSubjF\fP ('\fB/\fP'), \fBSearchSubjB\fP
('\fB?\fP') and \fBSearchRepeat\fP ('\fB\\\fP') to search for a specific
option. Use \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP') to exit the option menu and keep
your changes. Use \fBQuitTin\fP ('\fBQ\fP') to exit without keeping
your changes.
.PP
The options menu provides access to the attributes menu for the current group
by the \fBConfigToggleAttrib\fP ('\fB<TAB>\fP') command. Pressing \fBConfigToggleAttrib\fP again
toggles back to the options menu. For more information see section "ATTRIBUTES
MENU AND GROUP ATTRIBUTES".
.PP
The \fBConfigScopeMenu\fP ('\fBS\fP') command brings up the scopes menu. For
more information see section "SCOPES MENU".
.PP
Here is a full list of all the available variables. The name in braces is
the name of the corresponding setting in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR.
.TP 4
.B Add posted articles to filter (add_posted_to_filter)
If ON add posted articles which start a new thread to filter for
highlighting follow-ups. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Insert 'User\-Agent:'-header (advertising)
Turn ON advertising in header (''User\-Agent:''). Default is ON.
.TP
.B Skip multipart/alternative parts (alternative_handling)
If ON strip multipart/alternative messages automatically. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Character to show deleted articles (art_marked_deleted)
The character used to show that an article was deleted. Default is 'D'.
.TP
.B Character to show inrange articles (art_marked_inrange)
The character used to show that an article is in a range. Default is '#'.
.TP
.B Character to show returning arts (art_marked_return)
The character used to show that an article will return as an unread article
when the group is next entered. Default is '\-'.
.TP
.B Character to show selected articles (art_marked_selected)
The character used to show that an article/thread is auto-selected (hot).
Default is '*'.
.TP
.B Character to show recent articles (art_marked_recent)
The character used to show that an article/thread is recent (not older
than X days). See also \fBrecent_time\fP. Default is 'o'.
.TP
.B Character to show unread articles (art_marked_unread)
The character used to show that an article has not been read. Default is
\&'+'.
.TP
.B Character to show read articles (art_marked_read)
The character used to show that an article was read. Default is ' '.
.TP
.B Character to show killed articles (art_marked_killed)
The character used to show that an article was killed. Default is 'K'.
\fBkill_level\fP must be set accordingly.
.TP
.B Character to show read selected arts (art_marked_read_selected)
The character used to show that an article was hot before it was read.
Default is ':'. \fBkill_level\fP must be set accordingly.
.TP
.B Ask before using MIME viewer (ask_for_metamail)
If ON \fBtin\fP will ask before using a MIME viewer
(\fBmetamail_prog\fP) to display MIME messages. This only occurs if a
MIME viewer is set. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Send you a cc and/or bcc automatically (auto_cc_bcc)
Automatically put your name in the ''Cc:'' and/or ''Bcc:'' field when
mailing an article. Default is No.
.TP
.B List thread using right arrow key (auto_list_thread)
If ON automatically list thread when entering it using right arrow key.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B Reconnect to server automatically (auto_reconnect)
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Use Archive\-name: header for save (auto_save)
If ON articles/threads with ''Archive\-name:'' in header will be
automatically saved with the Archive\-name & part/patch no and post
processed if \fBpost_process_type\fP is set to something other than 'No'.
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Save articles in batch mode (batch_save)
If set ON articles/threads will be saved in batch mode when save
\&''\fB\-S\fP'' or mail ''\fB\-M\fP, \fB\-N\fP'' is specified on the command
line. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Show mini menu & posting etiquette (beginner_level)
If set ON a mini menu of the most useful commands will be displayed at the
bottom of the screen for each level. Also a short posting etiquette will be
displayed after composing an article. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Cache NNTP overview files locally (cache_overview_files)
If ON, create local copies of NNTP overview files. This can be used to
considerably speed up accessing large groups when using a slow connection.
See also "INDEX FILES". Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Catchup read groups when quitting (catchup_read_groups)
If set ON the user is asked when quitting if all groups read during the
current session should be marked read. Default is OFF.
.\"
.\" FIXME - I leave this to someone who's using colors
.TP
.B Standard background color (col_back)
Standard background color
.TP
.B Color of sender (From:) (col_from)
Color of sender (From:)
.TP
.B Color of article header lines (col_head)
Color of header-lines
.TP
.B Color of help text (col_help)
Color of help pages
.TP
.B Color for inverse text (background) (col_invers_bg)
Color of background for inverse text
.TP
.B Color for inverse text (foreground) (col_invers_fg)
Color of foreground for inverse text
.TP
.B Color of highlighting with _dash_ (col_markdash)
Color of words emphasized like _this_. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Color of highlighting with /slash/ (col_markslash)
Color of words emphasized like /this/. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Color of highlighting with *stars* (col_markstar)
Color of words emphasized like *this*. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Color of highlighting with \-stroke\- (col_markstroke)
Color of words emphasized like \-this\-. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Color of mini help menu (col_minihelp)
Color of mini help menu
.TP
.B Color of actual news header fields (col_newsheaders)
Color of actual news header fields
.TP
.B Standard foreground color (col_normal)
Standard foreground color
.TP
.B Color of quoted lines (col_quote)
Color of quoted lines
.TP
.B Color of twice quoted line (col_quote2)
Color of twice quoted lines
.TP
.B Color of =>3 times quoted line (col_quote3)
Color of >=3 times quoted lines
.TP
.B Color of response counter (col_response)
Color of response counter. This is the text that says "Response x of y"
in the article viewer.
.TP
.B Color of signatures (col_signature)
Color of signatures
.TP
.B Color of urls highlight (col_urls)
Color of urls highlight
.TP
.B Color of verbatim blocks (col_verbatim)
Color of verbatim blocks
.TP
.B Color of article subject lines (col_subject)
Color of article subject
.TP
.B Color of text lines (col_text)
Color of text-lines
.TP
.B Color of help/mail sign (col_title)
Color of help/mail sign
.TP
.B Which actions require confirmation (confirm_choice)
Ask for manual confirmation to protect the user.
.RS +.5i
.IP \(bu 3
.B commands
Ask for confirmation before executing certain dangerous commands (e.g.,
\fBCatchup\fP ('\fBc\fP')). Commands that this affects are marked in
this manual with '[after confirmation]'. Default is commands & quit.
.\" TODO: check if all affected commands are marked [after confirmation]
.IP \(bu
.B quit
You'll be asked to confirm that you wish to exit \fBtin\fP when you
use the \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP') command.
.IP \(bu
.B select
Ask for confirmation before marking all not selected (with
\fBGroupMarkUnselArtRead\fP ('\fBX\fP') command) articles as read.
.RE
.TP
.B Format string for display of dates (date_format)
Format string \fBtin\fP uses for date representation. A description of the
different format options can be found at
.BR strftime (3).
\fBtin\fP uses
.BR strftime (3)
when available and supports most format options in his fallback code.
Default is "%a, %d %b %Y %H:%M:%S".
.\"
.\" most of these default_* settings are not available from the menu
.\" as they are intended for internal use only.
.TP
.B (default_art_search)
.TP
.B (default_author_search)
.TP
.B (default_config_search)
The last article/author/config option that was searched for.
.TP
.B (default_filter_days)
Default is 28.
.TP
.B (default_filter_kill_case)
Default for quick (1 key) kill filter case.
ON = filter case sensitive, OFF = ignore case. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B (default_filter_kill_expire)
Default for quick (1 key) kill filter expire.
ON = limit to \fBdefault_filter_days\fP, OFF = don't ever expire. Default
is OFF.
.TP
.B (default_filter_kill_global)
Default for quick (1 key) kill filter global.
ON=apply to all groups, OFF=apply to current group. Default is ON.
.TP
.B (default_filter_kill_header)
Default for quick (1 key) kill filter header.
.RS +.5i
.IP 0,1 4
 ''Subject:''
.IP 2,3
 ''From:''
.IP 4
 ''Message\-ID:'' & full ''References:'' line
.IP 5
 ''Message\-ID:'' & last ''References:'' entry only
.IP 6
 ''Message\-ID:'' entry only
.IP 7
 ''Lines:''
.RE
.TP
.B (default_filter_select_case)
Default for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter case. ON=filter case
sensitive, OFF=ignore case. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B (default_filter_select_expire)
Default for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter expire.
ON = limit to \fBdefault_filter_days\fP, OFF = don't ever expire.
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B (default_filter_select_global)
Default for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter global.
ON=apply to all groups OFF=apply to current group. Default is ON.
.TP
.B (default_filter_select_header)
Default for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter header.
.RS +.5i
.IP 0,1 4
 ''Subject:''
.IP 2,3
 ''From:''
.IP 4
 ''Message\-ID:'' & full ''References:'' line
.IP 5
 ''Message\-ID:'' & last ''References:'' entry only
.IP 6
 ''Message\-ID:'' entry only
.IP 7
 ''Lines:''
.RE
.TP
.B (default_goto_group)
.TP
.B (default_group_search)
.TP
.B (default_mail_address)
.TP
.B (default_move_group)
.TP
.B (default_pattern)
.TP
.B (default_pipe_command)
.TP
.B (default_post_newsgroups)
.TP
.B (default_post_subject)
.TP
.B (default_range_group)
.TP
.B (default_range_select)
.TP
.B (default_range_thread)
.TP
.B (default_repost_group)
.TP
.B (default_save_file)
.TP
.B (default_save_mode)
.TP
.B (default_select_pattern)
.TP
.B (default_shell_command)
.TP
.B (default_subject_search)
.TP
.B Draw \-> instead of highlighted bar (draw_arrow)
Allows groups/articles to be selected by an arrow '\->' if set ON or
by an highlighted bar if set OFF. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Invocation of your editor (editor_format)
The format string used to create the editor start command with parameters.
Default is "%E +%N %F" (i.e., /bin/vi +7 .article).
.TP
.B Force redraw after certain commands (force_screen_redraw)
Specifies whether a screen redraw should always be done after certain
external commands. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Number of articles to get (getart_limit)
If \fBgetart_limit\fP is > 0 not more than \fBgetart_limit\fP articles/group
are fetched from the server. If \fBgetart_limit\fP is < 0 \fBtin\fP will start
fetching articles from your first unread minus absolute value of
\fBgetart_limit\fP. Default is 0, which means no limit.
.TP
.B Catchup group using left key (group_catchup_on_exit)
If ON catchup group when leaving with the left arrow key. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Go to the next unread article with (goto_next_unread)
Which keys \fBtin\fP should accept to jump to the next unread article.
Possible is any combination of \fBPageDown\fP and \fBPageNextUnread\fP.
When \fBPageDown\fP is set \fBtin\fP jumps to the next article at the
end of the current one. When \fBPageNextUnread\fP is set \fBtin\fP jumps
immediately to the next article when \fBPageNextUnread\fP ('\fB<TAB>\fP')
is pressed. Default is PageNextUnread.
.TP
.B Max. length of group names shown (groupname_max_length)
Maximum length of the names of newsgroups to be displayed so that more of
the newsgroup description can be displayed. Default is 32.
.TP
.B Display uue data as an attachment (hide_uue)
If set to 'No' then raw uuencoded data is displayed. If set to 'Yes' then
sections of uuencoded data will be shown with a single tag line showing the
size and filename (much the same as a MIME attachment). If set to 'Hide all'
then any line that looks like uuencoded data will be folded into a tag line.
This is useful when uuencoded data is split across more than one article but
can also lead to false positives. This setting can also be toggled in the
article viewer. Default is 'No'.
.TP
.B External inews (inews_prog)
Path, name and options of external
.BR inews (1).
If you are reading via NNTP the default value is \-\-internal (use built-in
NNTP inews), else it is "inews \-h". The article is passed to
\fBinews_prog\fP on STDIN via '< article'.
.TP
.B (info_in_last_line)
.\" this is missing from the Menu
If ON, show current group description or article subject in the last line
(not in the pager and global menu) - \fBToggleInfoLastLine\fP ('\fBi\fP')
toggles setting. This facility is useful as the full width of the screen is
available to display long subjects. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Use interactive mail reader (interactive_mailer)
Interactive mailreader: if greater than 0 your mailreader will be invoked
earlier for reply so you can use more of its features (e.g. MIME,
pgp, ...). 1 means include headers, 2 means don't include headers
(old use_mailreader_i=ON option). 0 turns off usage. This option has to
suit \fBmailer_format\fP. Default is 0.
.TP
.\" TODO: fix menu description
.\"       mono_mark* currently do allow "Reverse video" even if
.\"       inverse_okay=FALSE
.B Use inverse video for page headers (inverse_okay)
If ON use inverse video for page headers and URL highlighting.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B Keep failed arts in ~/dead.articles (keep_dead_articles)
If ON keep all failed postings in \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/dead.articles\fR
besides keeping the last failed posting in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/dead.article\fR. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Filter which articles (kill_level)
This option controls the processing and display of articles that are killed.
There are 3 options:
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBKill only unread arts\fP is the 'traditional' behavior of \fBtin\fP. Only
unread articles are killed once only by marking them read. As filtering
only happens on unread articles with \fBkill_level\fP set to 0,
\fBart_marked_killed\fP and \fBart_marked_read_selected\fP are only shown
once. When you reenter the group the mark will be gone.
.IP 1
\fBKill all arts & show with K\fP will process all articles in the group and
therefore there is a processing overhead when using this option. Killed
articles are threaded as normal but they will be marked with
\fBart_marked_killed\fP.
.IP 2
\fBKill all arts and never show\fP will process all articles in the group
and therefore there is a processing overhead when using this option. Killed
articles simply does not get displayed at all.
.RE
Default is 0 (\fBKill only unread arts\fP).
.TP
.B Use 8bit characters in mail headers (mail_8bit_header)
Allows 8bit characters unencoded in the header of mail message. Default is
OFF. Turning it ON is effective only if \fBmail_mime_encoding\fP is also set
to 8bit. Leaving it OFF is safe for most users and compliant to Internet
Mail Standard (\fBRFC5322\fP and \fBRFC2047\fP). Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Mail address (mail_address)
User's mail address (and full name), if not username@host. This is used when
creating articles, sending mail and when
.BR pgp (1)
signing.
.TP
.B MIME encoding in mail messages (mail_mime_encoding)
MIME encoding of the body in mail message, if necessary (8bit, base64,
quoted\-printable, 7bit). Default is quoted\-printable.
.TP
.B Quote line when mailing (mail_quote_format)
Format of quote line when replying (via mail) to an article (%A=Address,
%D=Date, %F=Fullname+Address, %G=Groupname, %M=Message\-ID, %N=Fullname,
%C=Firstname, %I=Initials). Default is "In article %M you wrote:"
.TP
.B Format of the mailbox (mailbox_format)
Select one of the following mailbox-formats: MBOXO (default, except for
SCO), MBOXRD or MMDF (default on SCO). See
.BR mbox (5)
for more details on MBOXO and MBOXRD and
.BR mmdf (5)
for more details about MMDF.
.TP
.B Mail directory (maildir)
The directory where articles/threads are to be saved in
.BR mbox (5)
format. This feature is mainly for use with the
.BR elm (1)
mail program. It allows the user to save articles/threads/groups simply by
giving '=' as the filename to save to.
Default is \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/Mail\fR.
.TP
.B Invocation of your mail command (mailer_format)
.\" TODO: document %S, %T, %M, %F, %U ...
The format string used to create the mailer command with parameters that is
used for mailing articles to other people. Default is '%M "%T" < %F' (e.g.,
/bin/mail "iain" < .article). The flexible format allows other mailers with
different command-line parameters to be used such as 'elm \-s "%S" "%T" <
"%F"' (e.g., elm \-s "subject" "iain" < .article) or 'sendmail \-oi \-oem \-t <
%F' (e.g. sendmail \-oi \-oem \-t < .article).
.TP
.B 'Mark as (un)read' ignores tags (mark_ignore_tags)
When this is ON, the \fBGroupMarkThdRead\fP ('\fBK\fP'),
\fBThreadMarkArtRead\fP ('\fBK\fP'), \fBMarkThdUnread\fP ('\fBZ\fP') at
Group level and \fBMarkArtUnread\fP ('\fBz\fP') at Thread level functions
mark just the current article or thread, ignoring other tagged, (un)read
articles. When OFF, the same function presents a menu with choices of the
current thread or article, all tagged, unread articles, or nothing.
.TP
.B Mark saved articles/threads as read (mark_saved_read)
If ON mark articles that are saved as read. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Viewer program for MIME articles (metamail_prog)
Path, name and options of external
.BR metamail (1)
program used to view non-textual parts of articles.
To use the built-in viewer, set to \-\-internal. This is the default
value when
.BR metamail (1)
is not installed. Leave it blank if you don't want any
automatic viewing of non-textual attachments. The 'V' command can
always be used to manually view any attachments.
See also \fBask_for_metamail\fP.
.TP
.B MM_CHARSET (mm_charset)
Charset supported locally, which is also used for MIME header
(charset parameter and charset name in header encoding) in mail and
news postings. If \fBMIME_STRICT_CHARSET\fP is defined at compile
time, text in charset other than the value of this parameter is
considered not displayable and represented as '?'. Otherwise, all
character sets are regarded as compatible with the display. If it's
not set, the value of the environment variable $\fBMM_CHARSET\fP is
used. US-ASCII or compile-time default is used in case neither of
them is defined. If your system supports
.BR iconv (3),
this option is disabled and you should use \fBmm_network_charset\fP instead.
.TP
.B MM_NETWORK_CHARSET (mm_network_charset)
Charset used for posting and MIME headers; replaces \fBmm_charset\fP.
Conversion between \fBmm_network_charset\fP and local charset (determined
via
.BR nl_langinfo (3))
is done via
.BR iconv (3),
if this function is not available on your system this option is disabled and
you have to use \fBmm_charset\fP instead. \fBmm_network_charset\fP is
limited to one of the following charsets:
.in +.3i
US-ASCII, ISO-8859-{1,2,3,4,5,7,9,10,13,14,15,16}, KOI8-{R,U,RU}
EUC-{CN,JP,KR,TW}, ISO-2022-{CN,CN-EXT,JP,JP-1,JP-2}, Big5, UTF-8
.in -.3i
Not all values might work on your system, see
.BR iconv_open (3)
for more details. If it's not set, the value of the environment variable
$\fBMM_CHARSET\fP is used. US-ASCII or compile-time default is used in case
neither of them is defined.
.TP
.B Attribute of highlighting with _dash_ (mono_markdash)
Character attribute of words emphasized like _this_. It depends on your
terminal which attributes are usable. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Attribute of highlighting with /slash/ (mono_markslash)
Character attribute of words emphasized like /this/. It depends on your
terminal which attributes are usable. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Attribute of highlighting with *stars* (mono_markstar)
Character attribute of words emphasized like *this*. It depends on your
terminal which attributes are usable. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B Attribute of highlighting with \-stroke\- (mono_markstroke)
Character attribute of words emphasized like \-this\-. It depends on your
terminal which attributes are usable. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
and \fBword_highlight\fP.
.TP
.B (newnews)
These are internal timers used by \fBtin\fP to keep track of new newsgroups.
Do not change them unless you understand what they are for.
.TP
.B Display these header fields (or *) (news_headers_to_display)
Which news headers you wish to see. If you want to see _all_ the headers,
place an '*' as this value. This is the only way a wildcard can be used.
If you enter 'X\-' as the value, you will see all headers beginning
with 'X\-' (like X\-Alan or X\-Pape). You can list more than one by delimiting
with spaces. Not defining anything turns off this option.
.TP
.B Do not display these header fields (news_headers_to_not_display)
Same as \fBnews_headers_to_display\fP except it denotes the opposite. An
example of using both options might be if you thought X\- headers were A Good
Thing(tm), but thought Alan and Pape were miscreants... well then you would
do something like this:
\fInews_headers_to_display=X\-\fR
\fInews_headers_to_not_display=X\-Alan X\-Pape\fR.
Not defining anything turns off this option.
.TP
.B Quote line when following up (news_quote_format)
Format of quote line when posting/following up an article (%A=Address,
%D=Date, %F=Fullname+Address, %G=Groupname, %M=Message\-ID, %N=Fullname,
%C=Firstname, %I=Initials). Default is "%F wrote:".
.TP
.B Unicode normalization form (normalization_form)
The normalization form \fBtin\fP should use to normalize unicode input.
The possible values are:
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNone\fP: no normalization
.IP 1
\fBNFKC\fP: Compatibility Decomposition, followed by Canonical Composition
.IP 2
\fBNFKD\fP: Compatibility Decomposition
.IP 3
\fBNFC\fP: Canonical Decomposition, followed by Canonical Composition
.IP 4
\fBNFD\fP: Canonical Decomposition
.RE
Some normalization modes are only available if they are supported by the
library \fBtin\fP uses to do the normalization. Default is NFKC.
.TP
.B Goto first unread article in group (pos_first_unread)
If ON put cursor at first unread article in group otherwise at last
article. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Use 8bit characters in news headers (post_8bit_header)
Allows 8bit characters unencoded in the header of a news article, if
set this also disables the generation of MIME-headers when they are
usually required. Default is OFF. Only enacted if
\fBpost_mime_encoding\fP is also set to 8bit. In a number of local
hierarchies where 8bit characters are used, using unencoded (raw)
8bit characters in header is acceptable and sometimes even
recommended so that you need to check the convention adopted in the
local hierarchy of your interest to determine what to do with this
and \fBpost_mime_encoding\fP.
.TP
.B MIME encoding in news messages (post_mime_encoding)
MIME encoding of the body in news message, if necessary. (8bit,
base64, quoted\-printable, 7bit). Default is 8bit, which leads to no
encoding. base64 and quoted\-printable are usually undesired on usenet.
.TP
.B View post-processed files (post_process_view)
If ON, then \fBtin\fP will start an appropriate viewer program to display
any files that were post processed and uudecoded. The program is determined
using the mailcap file. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Post process saved articles (post_process_type)
This specifies whether to perform post processing on saved articles.
The following values are allowed:
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNo\fP (default), no post processing is done.
.IP 1
\fBShell archives\fP, unpacking of multi-part
.BR shar (1)
files only.
.IP 2
\fBYes\fP, binary attachments and data will be decoded and saved.
.RE
.TP
.B Filename to be used for storing posted articles (posted_articles_file)
Keep posted articles in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/Mail/\fBposted_articles_file\fP\fR.
If no filename is set then postings will not be saved.
Default is 'posted'.
.TP
.B Print all headers when printing (print_header)
If ON, then the full article header is sent to the printer. Otherwise only
the ''Subject:'' and ''From:'' fields are output. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Printer program with options (printer)
The printer program with options that is to be used to print articles.
The default is
.BR lpr (1)
for BSD machines and
.BR lp (1)
for SysV machines. Printing from \fBtin\fP may have been disabled by the
System Administrator.
.TP
.B Process only unread articles (process_only_unread)
If ON only save/print/pipe/mail unread articles (tagged articles excepted).
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Show empty Followup\-To in editor (prompt_followupto)
If ON show empty ''Followup\-To:'' header when editing an article. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Characters used as quote-marks (quote_chars)
The character used in quoting included text to article followups and mail
replies. The '_' character represents a blank character and is replaced
with ' ' when read. Default is '>_'.
.TP
.B Quoting behavior (quote_style)
How articles should be quoted when following up or replying to them. There
are a number of things that can be done: empty lines can be quoted,
signatures can be quoted and quote_chars can be compressed when quoting
multiple times (for example, '> > >' will be turned into '>>>'). The default
is to compress quotes, and to quote empty lines.
.br
When you are viewing an article in raw mode ('\fB^H\fP'), and follow up or
reply to it, the signature will be quoted even if it would otherwise not be.
If \fBshow_signatures\fP is off, then the signature will never be quoted.
.TP
.B Regex used to show quoted lines (quote_regex)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching lines are shown in \fBcol_quote\fP. If \fBquote_regex\fP is
blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Regex used to show twice quoted l. (quote_regex2)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching lines are shown in \fBcol_quote2\fP. If \fBquote_regex2\fP is
blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Regex used to show >= 3 times q.l. (quote_regex3)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching lines are shown in \fBcol_quote3\fP. If \fBquote_regex3\fP is
blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Article recentness time limit (recent_time)
If set to 0, this feature is deactivated, otherwise it means the number of
days. Default is 2.
.TP
.B Render BiDi (render_bidi)
If ON \fBtin\fP does the rendering of bi-directional text. If OFF \fBtin\fP
leaves the rendering of bi-directional text to the terminal. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Interval in seconds to reread active (reread_active_file_secs)
The news \fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file is
reread at regular intervals to show if any new news has arrived. Default is
1200. Setting this to 0 will disable this feature.
.TP
.B Directory to save arts/threads in (savedir)
Directory where articles/threads are saved. Default is
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/News\fR.
.TP
.B Score limit (kill) (score_limit_kill)
If the score of an article is below or equal this value the article gets
marked as killed.
.TP
.B Score limit (select) (score_limit_select)
If the score of an article is above or equal this value the article gets
marked as hot.
.TP
.B Default score to kill articles (score_kill)
Score of an article which should be killed, this must be <=
\fBscore_limit_kill\fP.
.TP
.B Default score to select articles (score_select)
Score of an article which should be marked hot, this must be >=
\fBscore_limit_select\fP.
.TP
.B Number of lines to scroll in pager (scroll_lines)
The number of lines that will be scrolled up/down in the article pager when
using cursor-up/down. The default is 1 (line-by-line). Set to 0 to get
traditional tin page-by-page scrolling. Set to \-1 to get page-by-page
scrolling where the top/bottom line is carried over onto the next page.
This setting supersedes show_last_line_prev_page=ON. Set to \-2 to get
half-page scrolling. This setting supersedes full_page_scroll=OFF.
.TP
.B In group menu, show author by (show_author)
Which information about the author should be shown. Default is 2, authors
full name.
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNone\fP, only the ''Subject:'' line will be displayed.
.IP 1
\fBAddress\fP, ''Subject:'' line & the address part of the ''From:'' line
are displayed.
.IP 2
\fBFull Name\fP, ''Subject:'' line & the authors full name part of the
\&''From:'' line are displayed (default).
.IP 3
\fBAddress and Name\fP, ''Subject:'' line & all of the ''From:'' line are
displayed.
.RE
.TP
.B Show description of each newsgroup (show_description)
If ON show a short group description text after newsgroup name at the group
selection level. The ''\fB\-d\fP'' command-line flag will override the
setting and turn descriptions off. The text used is taken from the
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/newsgroups\fR file and if supported (requires
.B tin
to be build with mh-mail-handling support) from
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/mailgroups\fR for mailgroups. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Show lines/score in listings (show_info)
Which information about the thread or article should be shown. Default is 1,
show only the line count.
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNone\fP, no information will be displayed.
.IP 1
\fBLines\fP, in article listing the line count of an article will be
displayed and in thread listing the line count of first (unread) article
will be displayed.
.IP 2
\fBScore\fP, in article listing the score of an article will be displayed
and in thread listing the score of the thread will be displayed - see also
\fBthread_score\fP.
.IP 3
\fBLines & Score\fP, display line count and score.
.RE
.TP
.B Show only unread articles (show_only_unread_arts)
If ON show only new/unread articles otherwise show all articles.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B Show only groups with unread arts (show_only_unread_groups)
If ON show only subscribed groups that contain unread articles. Default
is OFF.
.TP
.B Display signatures (show_signatures)
If OFF don't show signatures when displaying articles.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B Prepend signature with '\en\-\- \en' (sigdashes)
If ON prepend the signature with sigdashes. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Create signature from path/command (sigfile)
The path that specifies the signature file to use when posting, following
up to or replying to an article. If the path is a directory then the
signature will be randomly generated from files that are in the specified
directory. If the path starts with a ! the program the path points to will
be executed to generate a signature. \fBtin\fP will pass the name of the
current newsgroup as argument to the program. \-\-none will suppress any
signature.
Default is \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.Sig\fR.
.TP
.B Add signature when reposting (signature_repost)
If ON add signature to reposted articles. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Regex used to highlight /slashes/ (slashes_regex)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching words are shown in \fBcol_markslash\fP or \fBmono_markslash\fP. If
\fBslashes_regex\fP is blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Sort articles by (sort_article_type)
This specifies how articles should be sorted. Sort by ascending Date (6) is
the default. The following sort types are allowed:
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNothing\fP, don't sort articles.
.IP 1
\fBSubject: (descending)\fP, sort articles by ''Subject:'' field descending.
.IP 2
\fBSubject: (ascending)\fP, sort articles by ''Subject:'' field ascending.
.IP 3
\fBFrom: (descending)\fP, sort articles by ''From:'' field descending.
.IP 4
\fBFrom: (ascending)\fP, sort articles by ''From:'' field ascending.
.IP 5
\fBDate: (descending)\fP, sort articles by ''Date:'' field descending.
.IP 6
\fBDate: (ascending)\fP, sort articles by ''Date:'' field ascending
(default).
.IP 7
\fBScore (descending)\fP, sort articles by filtering score descending.
.IP 8
\fBScore (ascending)\fP, sort articles by filtering score ascending.
.IP 9
\fBLines: (descending)\fP, sort articles by ''Lines:'' field descending.
.IP 10
\fBLines: (ascending)\fP, sort articles by ''Lines:'' field ascending.
.RE
.TP
.B Sort threads by (sort_threads_type)
This specifies how threads will be sorted. Sort by descending Score (1) is
the default. The following sort types are
allowed:
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNothing\fP, don't sort threads.
.IP 1
\fBScore (descending)\fP, sort threads by filtering score descending
(default).
.IP 2
\fBScore (ascending)\fP, sort threads by filtering score ascending.
.IP 3
\fBLast posting date (descending)\fP, sort threads by date of last posting descending.
.IP 4
\fBLast posting date (ascending)\fP, sort threads by date of last posting ascending.
.RE
.TP
.B Spamtrap warning address parts (spamtrap_warning_addresses)
Set this option to a list of comma-separated strings to be warned if you are
replying to an article by mail where the e-mail address contains one of
these strings. The matching is case-insensitive. Example:
.sp
\fIspam,delete,remove\fR
.TP
.B Regex used to highlight *stars* (stars_regex)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching words are shown in \fBcol_markstar\fP or \fBmono_markstar\fP. If
\fBstars_regex\fP is blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Start editor with line offset (start_editor_offset)
Set ON if the editor used for posting, follow-ups and bug reports has the
capability of starting and positioning the cursor at a specified line within
a file. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Strip blanks of end of lines (strip_blanks)
Strips the blanks from the end of each line therefore speeding up the
display when reading on a slow terminal or via modem. Default is ON.
.\" only done in select/thread level, not in group level (nor in the pager)
.\" IMHO we should remove it
.TP
.B Remove bogus groups from newsrc (strip_bogus)
Bogus groups are groups that are present in your
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR file that no longer exist on the news
server. There are 3 options. 0 means do nothing & always keep bogus groups.
1 means bogus groups will be permanently removed. 2 means that bogus groups
will appear on the Group Selection Menu, prefixed with a 'D'. This allows
you to unsubscribe from them as and when you wish. Default is 0 (Always
Keep).
.TP
.B No unsubscribed groups in newsrc (strip_newsrc)
If ON, then unsubscribed groups will be permanently removed from your
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR file. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Regex used to highlight \-strokes\- (strokes_regex)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching words are shown in \fBcol_markstroke\fP or \fBmono_markstroke\fP.
If \fBstrokes_regex\fP is blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Wrap around threads on next unread (wrap_on_next_unread)
If enabled a search for the next unread article will wrap around all
articles to find also previous unread articles. If disabled the search
stops at the end of the thread list. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Display \&"a as Umlaut-a (tex2iso_conv)
If ON, show "a as Umlaut-a, etc. Default is OFF. This behavior can also be
toggled in the article viewer via \fBPageToggleTex2iso\fP ('\fB"\fP').
.TP
.B Thread articles by (thread_articles)
Defines which threading method to use. It's possible to set the threading
type on a per group basis by setting the group attribute variable
\fBthread_arts\fP to 0 - 4 in the file
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/attributes\fR. (See also "GROUP ATTRIBUTES".)
The default is Both Subject and References.
The choices are:
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBNone\fP, don't thread.
.IP 1
\fBSubject\fP, thread on ''Subject:'' only.
.IP 2
\fBReferences\fP, thread on ''References:'' only.
.IP 3
\fBBoth Subject and References\fP, thread on ''References:'' then
\&''Subject:'' (default).
.IP 4
\fBMultipart Subject\fP, thread multipart articles on ''Subject:''.
.IP 5
\fBPercentage Match\fP, thread base upon a partial character match on
\&''Subject:''.
.RE
.TP
.B Catchup thread by using left key (thread_catchup_on_exit)
If ON catchup group/thread when leaving with the left arrow key. Default is
ON.
.TP
.B Matchingness of a thread (thread_perc)
How closely the subjects must match for two threads to be considered
part of the same thread. This is a percentage and the default if 75%.
.TP
.B Score of a thread (thread_score)
How the total score of a thread is computed. Default is 0, the maximum
score in this thread.
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBMax\fP, the maximum score in this thread.
.IP 1
\fBSum\fP, the sum of all scores in this thread.
.IP 2
\fBAverage\fP, the average score in this thread.
.RE
.TP
.B Transliteration (translit)
If ON append //TRANSLIT to the first argument of
.BR iconv_open (3)
to enable transliteration. This means that when a character cannot be
represented in the target character set, it can be approximated through one
or several similarly looking characters. On systems where this extension
doesn't exist, this option is disabled. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B How to treat blank lines (trim_article_body)
Allows you to select how \fBtin\fP treats blank lines in article bodies.
Default is 0. This option does not affect lines within verbatim blocks.
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBDon't trim article body\fP, do nothing.
.IP 1
\fBSkip leading blank lines\fP.
.IP 2
\fBSkip trailing blank lines\fP.
.IP 3
\fBSkip leading and trailing blank l.\fP, skip leading and trailing blank lines.
.IP 4
\fBCompact multiple between text\fP, replace multiple blank lines between
textblocks with one blank line.
.IP 5
\fBCompact multiple and skip leading\fP, 4 + 1
.IP 6
\fBCompact multiple and skip trailing\fP, 4 + 2
.IP 7
\fBCompact mltpl., skip lead. & trai.\fP, 4 + 3
.RE
.TP
.B Regex used to highlight _underline_ (underscores_regex)
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching words are shown in \fBcol_markdash\fP or \fBmono_markdash\fP. If
\fBunderscores_regex\fP is blank, then \fBtin\fP uses a built-in default.
.TP
.B Remove ~/.article after posting (unlink_article)
If ON remove \fI~/.article\fR after posting. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Program that opens URL's (url_handler)
The program that will be run when launching URL's in the article viewer
using \fBPageViewUrl\fP ('\fBU\fP'). The actual URL will be appended to this.
Default is \fBurl_handler.sh %s\fP.
.TP
.B URL highlighting in message body (url_highlight)
Enable highlighting URLs in message body. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Use ANSI color (use_color)
If enabled \fBtin\fP uses ANSI-colors. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Use scroll keys on keypad (use_keypad)
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Use mouse in xterm (use_mouse)
Allows the mouse button support in a
.BR xterm (1x)
to be enabled/disabled.
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Use slrnface to show ''X\-Face:''s (use_slrnface)
If enabled \fBtin\fP uses
.BR slrnface (1)
to interpret the ''X\-Face:'' header. For this option to have any effect,
\fBtin\fP must be running in an
.BR xterm (1x)
and
.BR slrnface (1)
must be in your $\fBPATH\fP. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B Regex for begin of a verbatim block (verbatim_begin_regex)
A regular expression that tin will use to find the begin of a verbatim block.
.TP
.B Regex for end of a verbatim block (verbatim_end_regex)
A regular expression that tin will use to find the end of a verbatim block.
.TP
.B Detection of verbatim blocks (verbatim_handling)
If ON verbatim blocks will be detected. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Wildcard matching (wildcard)
Allows you to select how \fBtin\fP matches strings. The default is 0 and
uses the wildmat notation, which is how this has traditionally been handled.
Setting this to 1 allows you to use
.BR perl (1)
compatible regular expressions
.BR pcre (3)
(see also
.BR perlre (1)
and
.BR pcrepattern (3)).
You will probably want to update your filter file if you use this regularly.
NB: Newsgroup names will always be matched using the wildmat notation.
.TP
.B What to display instead of mark (word_h_display_marks)
Should the leading and ending stars, slashes, strokes and dashes also be
displayed, even when they are highlighting marks?
.RS +.5i
.IP 0 3
\fBno\fP
.IP 1
yes, \fBdisplay mark\fP
.IP 2
print a \fBspace\fP instead
.RE
.TP
.B Word highlighting in message body (word_highlight)
Enable word highlighting. See \fBword_h_display_marks\fP for the options
available. If \fBuse_color\fP is enabled the colors specified in
\fBcol_markdash\fP, \fBcol_markslash\fP, \fBcol_markstar\fP and
\fBcol_markstroke\fP are used for word highlighting else the character
attributes specified in \fBmono_markdash\fP, \fBmono_markslash\fP,
\fBmono_markstar\fP and \fBmono_markstroke\fP are used. Default is ON.
.TP
.B Page line wrap column (wrap_column)
Sets the column at which a displayed article body should be wrapped.
If this value is equal to 0, it defaults to the current screen width.
If this value is greater than your current screen width the part
off-screen is not displayed. Thus setting this option to a large
value can be used to disable wrapping. If this value is negative the
wrap margin is the current screen width plus the given value (as long
as the result is still positive, otherwise it will fall back to the
current screen width). Default is 0, wrapping at the current screen
width.
.TP
.B Quote line when cross-posting (xpost_quote_format)
Format is the same as for \fBnews_quote_format\fP, this is used when
answering to a crossposting to several groups with no ''Followup\-To:''
set.
.\"
.\"
.SS "ATTRIBUTES MENU AND GROUP ATTRIBUTES"
\fBtin\fP allows certain attributes to be set on a per group basis. If it
exists, the global attributes file,
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/attributes\fR is read. After that, the user's
own attributes file \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/attributes\fR is read.
The global attributes file is useful for distributing system-wide defaults
to new users who have no private attributes file yet.
.PP
Note that the \fIscope=<grouplist>\fR line has to be specified before the
attributes are specified for that list. All attributes are set to a
reasonable default so you only have to specify the attribute that you want
to change (e.g., savedir). All toggle attributes are set by specifying
ON/OFF. Otherwise, these function exactly the same as their global
equivalents. For more details see
.BR tin (5).
.PP
Attributes can also be changed from the attributes menu which can be
accessed by \fBConfigToggleAttrib\fP ('\fB<TAB>\fP') from the options
menu or \fBScopeSelect\fP ('\fB^J\fP' or '\fB<CR>\fP') from the scopes menu.
The attributes menu looks and behaves very similar to the options menu. The
title shows the current scope. Attributes set in the current scope are marked
with '\+' to the left of the attributes number.
.PP
Besides the keys for moving around and changing values known from the options
menu the attributes menu provides the following command:
\fBConfigResetAttrib\fP ('\fBr\fP') which resets an attribute to a default
value.
.\"
.\"
.SS "SCOPES MENU"
The scopes menu (accessible from the options menu with \fBConfigScopeMenu\fP
('\fBS\fP')) shows all scopes read from the global and local attributes file.
Scopes from the global attributes file are marked with '!' to the left of the
scope number. Delete/rename/move are not possible with those scopes.
.PP
In addition to the common moving keys the following commands are available:
\fBScopeSelect\fP ('\fB^J\fP' or '\fB<CR>\fP') enter the attributes menu for
the current scope, \fBScopeEditAttributesFile\fP ('\fBE\fP') edit the local
attributes file, \fBScopeAdd\fP ('\fBa\fP') add a new scope, \fBScopeDelete\fP
('\fBd\fP') delete the current scope, \fBScopeMove\fP ('\fBm\fP') move the
current scope to a new position, \fBScopeRename\fP ('\fBr\fP') rename the
current scope. \fBToggleHelpDisplay\fP ('\fBH\fP') toggles the help mini
menu at the bottom of the screen.
.\"
.\"
.SS "FILTERING ARTICLES"
.\" FIXME - add scoring description
When there is a subject or an author which you are either very interested
in, or find completely uninteresting, you can easily instruct \fBtin\fP to
\fIauto-select\fR or \fIauto-kill\fR articles that match \fIrules\fR that
you specify. This can be anything from the name of the author to the number
of lines in an article.
.PP
When \fBtin\fP starts up the user's kill-file
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/filter\fR (see also
.BR tin (5))
is read. Each time a newsgroup is entered the rules are applied and articles
killed or selected when they meet certain criteria.
.PP
The degree to which rules are applied depend on the \fBkill_level\fP tinrc
setting. By default killed articles will only be marked read. Adjust
\fBkill_level\fP for more aggressive processing. Articles that match an
auto-selection rule are marked with a ''*''.
.PP
Filtering rules can be manually entered into
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/filter\fR (but don't do this whilst running
\fBtin\fP else you will lose your changes) or by using an on-screen menu
within \fBtin\fP.
.PP
The filtering capabilities of \fBtin\fP have been significantly enhanced
over previous versions to include scoring and better pattern matching. It is
recommended that you read the file \fIfiltering\fR in the \fBtin\fP
documentation directory. This file can also be read online at
<http://www.tin.org/filtering.txt>.
.PP
.\" FIXME - Next paragraph is out of date
The on-screen filtering menu is accessed by pressing '\fB^K\fP' at the Group
and Article levels. It allows the user to kill or select an article that
matches the current ''Subject:'' line, ''From:'' line or a string entered by
the user. The user entered string can be applied to the ''Subject:'' or
\&''From:'' lines of an article. The kill description can be limited to the
current newsgroup or it can apply to all newsgroups. Once entered the user
can abort the command and not save the kill description, edit the kill file
or save the kill description.
.\"
.\"
.SS "POSTING ARTICLES"
\fBtin\fP allows posting of articles, follow-up to already posted articles
and replying direct through mail to the author of an article.
.PP
Use the \fBPost\fP ('\fBw\fP') command to post an article to a newsgroup.
After entering the post subject the default editor (i.e.,
.BR vi (1))
or the editor specified by the $\fBVISUAL\fP or $\fBEDITOR\fP environment
variable will be started and the article can be entered. To crosspost
articles simply add a comma and the name of the newsgroup(s) to the end of
the ''Newsgroups:'' line at the beginning of the article. After saving and
exiting the editor you are asked if you wish to a)bort posting the article,
e)dit the article again or p)ost the article to the specified newsgroup(s).
.PP
Use the \fBDisplayPostHist\fP ('\fBW\fP') command to display a history of
the articles you have posted. The date the article was posted, which
newsgroups the article was posted to and the articles subject line are
displayed.
.PP
Use the \fBPageFollowupQuote\fP ('\fBf\fP'), \fBPageFollowup\fP ('\fBF\fP')
or \fBPageFollowupQuoteHeaders\fP ('\fB^W\fP') command to post a follow-up
article to an already posted article. The \fBPageFollowupQuote\fP command
will copy the text of the original article into the editor. The
\fBPageFollowupQuoteHeaders\fP command will copy the text and all headers
of the original article into the editor. The editing procedure is the same
as when posting an article with the \fBPost\fP ('\fBw\fP') command.
.PP
Use the \fBPageReplyQuote\fP ('\fBr\fP'), \fBPageReply\fP ('\fBR\fP') or
\fBPageReplyQuoteHeaders\fP ('\fB^E\fP') command to reply direct through
mail to the author of an already posted article. The \fBPageReplyQuote\fP
command will copy the text of the original article into the editor. The
\fBPageReplyQuoteHeaders\fP command will copy the text and all headers of
the original article into the editor. The editing procedure is the same as
when posting an article with the \fBPost\fP ('\fBw\fP') command. After
saving and exiting the editor you are asked if you wish to abort sending
the article via \fBPostAbort\fP ('\fBa\fP'), edit the article
again via \fBPostEdit\fP ('\fBe\fP') or send the article to the author via
\fBPostSend\fP ('\fBs\fP').
.\"
.\"
.SS "CUSTOMIZING THE ARTICLE QUOTE STRING"
When posting a followup to an article or replying direct to the author of an
article via email the text of the article can be quoted. The beginning of
the quoted text can contain information about the quoted article (e.g., Name
and the Message\-ID of the article). To allow for different situations
certain information from the article can be used in the quoted string. The
following variables are expanded if found in the tinrc variables
\fBmail_quote_format\fP, \fBnews_quote_format\fP or \fBxpost_quote_format\fP:
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'%A  'u +\w'Address'u
\fB%A\fP	Address (Email)
\fB%D\fP	Date (uses \fBdate_format\fP)
\fB%F\fP	Full address (%N <%A>)
\fB%G\fP	Groupname
\fB%M\fP	Message\-ID
\fB%N\fP	Fullname of author
\fB%C\fP	Firstname of author
\fB%I\fP	Initials of author
.fi
.RE
e.g.,
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
mail_quote_format=On %D in %G you wrote:
news_quote_format=In %M, %F wrote:
.ft R
.fi
.RE
would expand to:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
On 21 Sep 1993 09:45:51 \-0400 in alt.sources you wrote:
In <abcINN123@example.org>, Joe Bar <joe@example.org> wrote:
.ft R
.fi
.RE
The quoted text section of an article is marked by a preceding quote string
at the beginning of each quoted line. The default quote string is set to
\&'>_'. The default can be changed by setting the tinrc variable
\fBquote_chars\fP to ones own preference. (Note that '_' underline is used
to represent a space).
.\"
.\"
.SS "MAILING PIPING PRINTING REPOSTING AND SAVING ARTICLES"
The command interface to \fBGroupMail\fP, \fBPageMail\fP, \fBPostMail\fP or
\fBThreadMail\fP ('\fBm\fP'), \fBPipe\fP ('\fB|\fP'), \fBPrint\fP ('\fBo\fP'),
\fBPageRepost\fP or \fBGroupRepost\fP ('\fBx\fP') and \fBGroupSave\fP,
\fBPageSave\fP or \fBThreadSave\fP ('\fBs\fP' and \fBGroupAutoSave\fP,
\fBPageAutoSave\fP or \fBThreadAutoSave\fP '\fBS\fP') articles
is the same for ease of use.
.PP
Auto-saving with \fB*AutoSave\fP ('\fBS\fP') is a special case and
operates only on marked articles. They will processed without any further
prompting according to the default save parameters defined in tinrc or by
any attributes set for the current group.
.PP
Otherwise, the initial prompt will ask you to select which article,
thread, hot (auto-selected), regex pattern, tagged articles you wish to
mail, pipe etc.
.PP
Tagged articles must have already been tagged with a \fB*Tag\fP ('\fBt\fP')
command. All tagged articles can be untagged by a \fB*Untag\fP ('\fBU\fP')
untag command.
.PP
If a regex pattern is selected you are asked to enter a pattern (e.g., to
match all articles subject lines containing 'net News' you enter "net
News"). Any articles that match the entered expression will be mailed, piped
etc. See also the \fBwildcard\fP tinrc variable for advanced pattern
matching options.
.PP
Various expansion characters are recognized when entering the directory
and file to save to. Environment variables (prefixed with '$') and user home
directories (prefixed by '~' or '~username') can be specified.
Environment variables can themselves contain other special characters.
.PP
To save articles to a mailbox enter '=<mailbox name>' when asked for the
save filename. If you enter just '=' then articles will be saved to a
mailbox with the name of the current newsgroup (eg, alt.sources).
See \fBmaildir\fP.
.PP
To save in savedir/<news.group.name>/<filename> format enter '+<filename>'.
Environment variables are allowed within a filename (e.g.,
\fI$SOURCES/dir/filename\fR). See \fBsavedir\fP.
.PP
When saving articles you can specify whether the saved files should be
post processed. A default process type can be set
via \fBpost_process_type\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SS "AUTOMATIC MAILING AND SAVING NEW NEWS"
\fBtin\fP allows new/unread news articles to be mailed (''\fB\-M\fP'' and
\&''\fB\-N\fP'' option) or saved (''\fB\-S\fP'' option) in batch mode for later
reading. Useful when going on holiday and you don't want to return and find
that expire has removed a whole load of unread articles. Best to run via
.BR cron (1)
everyday while away, after which you will be mailed a report of which
articles were mailed/saved from which newsgroups and the total number of
articles mailed/saved. Articles are saved in a private news structure under
your <savedir> directory (default is \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/News\fR). Be
careful of using this option if you read a lot of groups because you could
overflow your file system.
.PP
When using ''\fB\-S\fP'' together with a given directory to save to
(''\fB\-s\fP'' option), the same directory must be specified when reading
the articles by ''\fB\-R\fP''.
.PP
If you only want to save some of your groups use the \fBbatch_save\fP tinrc
variable. Set to ON or OFF in tinrc to enable/disable saving of all groups
and then use the \fBbatch_save\fP attribute to fine tune which groups you
want to have saved. For example, if you want to save most of your groups,
then set \fBbatch_save\fP to ON in tinrc and selectively turn off the ones
you don't want using attributes.
.PP
.TP 2i
.B tin \-M iain \-c \-f newsrc.mail
(mail any unread articles in newsgroups specified in file newsrc.mail to the
local user iain and mark them as read)
.PP
.TP 2i
.B tin \-S \-c \-f newsrc.save
(save any unread articles in newsgroups specified in file newsrc.save and
mark them as read)
.PP
.TP 2i
.B tin \-R
(read any articles saved by \fBtin \-S\fP)
.\"
.\"
.SS RANGES
A range is simply a group of items marked using the \fBSetRange\fP
(\fB'#'\fP) key. Certain \fBtin\fP commands will operate on a range
if one exists rather than just the current item. A range is an
expression of the form <min>-<max>, e.g. 10-15 will highlight items
10 through 15 on the current screen. Other than absolute numeric
positions, '.' can be used in place of the current cursor position
and '$' can be used to mean the highest number available. Currently
the only commands that understand ranges are \fBGroupMarkThdRead\fP
('\fBK\fP'), \fBMarkArtUnread\fP ('\fBz\fP') and
\fBMarkThdUnread\fP ('\fBZ\fP').
.PP
.SS "NEWSGROUP LISTS & WILDCARDS"
Several places in \fBtin\fP allow you to specify a list of
newsgroups. These include command-line groups, (un)subscribe groups,
the AUTO[UN]SUBSCRIBE mechanism. The scope= attributes file tag and
the filter file group= tag also use the same syntax. \fBtin\fP
interprets this variable similarly to
.BR rn(1).
It contains a list of patterns, separated by commas and possibly
prefixed with exclamation points. An exclamation point negates the
meaning of a match on this pattern, and can be used to cancel certain
matches. Some examples:
.sp
\fIalt.config,news.*,!news.test\fR
.sp
Matches alt.config and everything in the 'news' hierarchy except news.test
.PP
See the explanation for the $\fBAUTOSUBSCRIBE\fP variables for further
examples.
.\"
.\"
.SS SIGNATURES
\fBtin\fP will recognize a signature in either
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.signature\fR or \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.Sig\fR.
If \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.signature\fR exists, then the signature
will be pulled into the editor for mail commands only. A signature in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.signature\fR will not be pulled into the
editor for posting commands since
.BR inews (1)
will append the signature itself.
.PP
A signature in \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.Sig\fR will be pulled into the
editor for both posting and mailing commands.
.PP
The following is an example of a \fI.Sig\fR file:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
NAMES  Joe Bar <joe@example.org>
SNAIL  Musterweg 12, 99999 Notreal, Germany
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fBtin\fP also has the capability to generate random signatures on a per
newsgroup basis if so desired. The way to accomplish this is to specify the
default signature or the group attribute sigfile as a directory. If for
example the sigfile path is \fI/usr/iain/.sigs\fR and \fI.sigs\fR is a
directory then \fBtin\fP will select a random signature from any file that
is in the directory \fI.sigs\fR (note: one signature per numbered file). A
random signature can also consist of a fixed part signature that can contain
your name, address etc. followed by the random sig. The fixed part of the
random sig is read from the file \fI$HOME/.sigfixed\fR.
.\"
.\"
.SS "TIPS AND TRICKS"
\fBtin\fP can be pretty much be navigated by using the four cursor keys.
The left arrow key goes up a level, the right arrow key goes down a level,
the up arrow key goes up a line and the down arrow key goes down a line.
.PP
The following newsgroups provide useful information concerning news software:
.in +.5i
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emnews.software.readers (info. about news user agents tin, rn, nn, slrn etc.)
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emnews.software.nntp (info. about NNTP)
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emnews.answers (Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) about many different themes)
.PP
Many prompts within \fBtin\fP offer a default choice that the cursor is
positioned on. By pressing '\fB<CR>\fP' the default value is taken.
Most prompts can be aborted by pressing '\fB<ESC>\fP'.
.PP
When \fBtin\fP is run in an
.BR xterm (1x)
it will resize itself each time
the
.BR xterm (1x)
is resized.
.PP
\fBtin\fP will reread the
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}\fR file at set
intervals (\fBreread_active_file_secs\fP) to show any newly arrived news.
.PP
If you find large number of new newsgroups cluttering up your screen,
pressing \fBSelectToggleReadDisplay\fP ('\fBr\fP') will make them go away.
.\"
.\"
.SS "XTERM BUTTONS"
If the environment variable \fB$TERM\fP is set to
.BR xterm (1x),
then button pressing can be used to select groups and articles. In this
discussion, the buttons are assumed to be assigned conventionally (i.e.,
Button1 is the left button).
.PP
In general (i.e., for the group, thread and article menus),
.TP 10
Button1 (left)
enters next (lower) level if you click on an article, otherwise pages down.
.TP
Button2 (center)
returns to the previous (upper) level if you click on an article, otherwise
pages up.
.TP
Button3 (right)
positions on the article line under mouse cursor, or pages down if you've
clicked outside the list of articles.
.PP
In the group selection menu, if the mouse is pointing at a group then:
.TP 10
left button
moves to and selects the group pointed at, just like \fBSelectReadGrp\fP
('\fB<CR>\fP').
.TP
center button
quits the program, just like \fBQuit\fP ('\fBq\fP').
.TP
right button
moves to the group pointed at.
.PP
In the article menu, if the mouse is pointing at an article (or thread) then:
.TP 10
left button
reads the article pointed at, just like \fBGroupReadBasenote\fP
('\fB<CR>\fP'), or the thread, just like \fBGroupListThd\fP ('\fBl\fP').
.TP
center button
exits the menu, catching up on the group if you have
\fBgroup_catchup_on_exit\fP set in your configuration, just like \fBQuit\fP
('\fBq\fP').
.TP
right button
moves to the article (or thread) pointed at.
.PP
In the thread menu, if the mouse is pointing at an article then:
.TP 10
left button
reads article pointed at, just like \fBThreadReadArt\fP ('\fB<CR>\fP').
.TP
center button
exits the menu, catching up on the thread if you have
\fBthread_catchup_on_exit\fP set in your configuration, just like \fBQuit\fP
('\fBq\fP').
.TP
right button
moves to the article pointed at.
.PP
In other menus and areas button pressing reverts back to usual cut and
paste of
.BR xterm (1x),
but after one click of any button.
.\"
.\"
.SS "INDEX FILES"
If your news server supports NOV index files (see
.BR newsoverview (5),
most modern installations will) and you have a fast connection to
your news server then this section can be ignored.
.PP
If your news server doesn't support NOV index files or you have a
very slow connection to your news server then \fBtin\fP can cache the
index for each newsgroup if \fBcache_overview_files\fP is set to ON.
Note that this cache can use up large amounts of diskspace if you
read a lot of groups and/or high traffic groups.
.PP
Each user creates/updates his/her own index files that are stored in
\fI${TIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR:\-"${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.news/\fR. If
you are reading via NNTP then the news server name will be appended
to keep the indexes for different servers separate. If you are
reading off the local spool and local overview files already exist
then turning on caching will have no effect. Likewise unless you see
significant delays entering a group when reading via NNTP then
turning on caching will have little or no effect.
.PP
Entering a group the first time tends to be slow because the index
file must be built from scratch. To alleviate the slowness start
\fBtin\fP to create all index files for the groups you subscribe to
with \fBtin \-u \-v\fP and go for a coffee. Subsequent readings of a
group will only need to do incremental updating of the index file and
will be much faster as only new articles will need to be cached.
.PP
As indexing might take some time you may want to run \fBtin\fP form
the system batcher
.BR cron (1)
with the ''\fB\-u\fP'' option:
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
30 6 * * * /usr/local/bin/tin \-u
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
If you are low on local disk space you should consider using
\fBgetart_limit\fP to limit the size of cached indexes and also
manually purge cached data for groups you are not reading anymore
with something like:
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
find ${TIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR:\-"${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.news* \\
\-type f \-name "[0\-9]*.[0\-9]" \-atime +28 | xargs rm \-f
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.\" TODO: mention dead.article, dead.articles
.\"               .article[.$$], .cancel[.$$], .letter[.$$]?
.\"       $PWD/trace[.out]   (--with-trace)
.\"       $TMPDIR/NNTP       (-D 1)
.\"       $TMPDIR/FILTER     (-D 2)
.\"       $TMPDIR/ARTS       (-D 2)
.\"       $TMPDIR/BITMAP     (-D 4)
.\"       $TMPDIR/REFS.dump  (-D 8)
.\"       $TMPDIR/REFS.info  (-D 8)
.\"       $TMPDIR/MALLOC     (-D 16)
.\"       $TMPDIR/ATTRIBUTES (-D 32)
.\"       $TMPDIR/SCOPES     (-D 32)
.\"       $TMPDIR/ACTIVE     (-D 64)
For a detailed description see
.BR tin (5).
.PP
.IR $MAILCAPS
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.mailcap
.br
.IR /etc/mailcap
.br
.IR /usr/etc/mailcap
.br
.IR /usr/local/etc/mailcap
.br
.IR /etc/mail/mailcap
.PP

.IR /etc/nntpserver
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.cancelsecret
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.mime.types
.br
.IR /etc/mime.types
.br
.IR /etc/tin/mime.types
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsauth
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc
.PP

.nf
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/$NNTPSERVER${NNTPPORT:+":$NNTPPORT"}/.oldnewsrc
.fi
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.signature
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.Sig
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.sigfixed
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/.inputhistory
.PP

.IR ${TIN_INDEX_MAILDIR:\-"${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.mail/
.PP

.nf
.IR ${TIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR:\-"${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.news${NNTPSERVER:+"\-$NNTPSERVER"}/
.fi
.PP

.IR ${TIN_INDEX_SAVEDIR:\-"${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.save/
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/active.mail
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/active.save
.PP

.\" .IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/attributes
.IR /etc/tin/attributes
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/attributes
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/filter
.PP

.nf
.IR /etc/tin/keymap${${LC_ALL:\-"${LC_CTYPE:\-"${LC_MESSAGES:\-"$LANG"}"}"}:+".${LC_ALL:\-"${LC_CTYPE:\-"${LC_MESSAGES:\-"$LANG"}"}"}"}
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/keymap${${LC_ALL:\-"${LC_CTYPE:\-"${LC_MESSAGES:\-"$LANG"}"}"}:+".${LC_ALL:\-"${LC_CTYPE:\-"${LC_MESSAGES:\-"$LANG"}"}"}"}
.fi
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/mailgroups
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/newsrctable
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/posted
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/Mail/posted
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/postponed.articles
.PP

.nf
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/$NNTPSERVER:${NNTPPORT:+":$NNTPPORT"}/newsgroups
.fi
.PP

.nf
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/$NNTPSERVER:${NNTPPORT:+":$NNTPPORT"}/serverrc
.fi
.PP

.\" .IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/tinrc
.IR /etc/tin/tinrc
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc
.PP

.IR /etc/tin/tin.defaults
.PP

.IR /usr/local/share/locale/${LC_MESSAGES}/LC_MESSAGES/tin.mo
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}"/"${TIN_ACTIVEFILE:\-active}
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/active.times
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/newsgroups
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/organization
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/overview.fmt
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR:\-NEWSLIBDIR}/subscriptions
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\" TODO: sort in a useful order, add undocumented env-vars like:
.\"
.\" .TP
.\" .B SHELL (Unix)
.\" The pathname of the user's login shell.
.\"
.\" used in xface support
.\" .TP
.\" .B DISPLAY
.\" .TP
.\" .B WINDOWID
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B TINRC
Define this variable if you want to specify command-line options that
\fBtin\fP should be started with to save typing them each time it is
started. The contents of the environment variable are added to the front of
the command-line options before it is parsed therefore allowing an option
specified on the command-line to override the same option specified in the
environment.
.TP
.B TIN_HOMEDIR
Define this variable if you do not want the \fI.tin\fR directory in
\fI$HOME/\fR. E.g., if you want all \fBtin\fP's private files in
\fI/tmp/.tin\fR you would set $\fBTIN_HOMEDIR\fP to \fI/tmp\fR.
.TP
.B TIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR
Define this variable if you do not want the \fI.news\fR directory in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/\fR. E.g., if you want all \fBtin\fP's
news index files in \fI/tmp/.news\fR you would set $\fBTIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR\fP
to \fI/tmp\fR.
.TP
.B TIN_INDEX_MAILDIR
Define this variable if you do not want the \fI.mail\fR directory in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/\fR. E.g., if you want all \fBtin\fP's
mail index files in \fI/tmp/.mail\fR you would set $\fBTIN_INDEX_MAILDIR\fP
to \fI/tmp\fR.
.TP
.B TIN_INDEX_SAVEDIR
Define this variable if you do not want the \fI.save\fR directory in
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.tin/\fR. E.g., if you want all \fBtin\fP's
save index files in \fI/tmp/.save\fR you would set $\fBTIN_INDEX_SAVEDIR\fP
to \fI/tmp\fR.
.TP
.B TIN_LIBDIR
Define this variable if you want to override the \fBNEWSLIBDIR\fP path
that was compiled into the \fBtin\fP binary, default is \fI/usr/lib/news\fR.
If tin is running in NNTP mode setting this variable has no effect.
.TP
.B TIN_SPOOLDIR
Define this variable if you want to override the \fBSPOOLDIR\fP path that
was compiled into the \fBtin\fP binary, default is \fI/var/spool/news\fR.
If tin is running in NNTP mode setting this variable has no effect.
.TP
.B TIN_NOVROOTDIR
Define this variable if you want to override the \fBNOVROOTDIR\fP path that
was compiled into the \fBtin\fP binary, default is \fBSPOOLDIR\fP
(see above). If tin is running in NNTP mode setting this variable has no
effect.
.TP
.B TIN_ACTIVEFILE
Define this variable if you want to override the \fBNEWSLIBDIR/active\fP
path that was compiled into the \fBtin\fP binary. If tin is running in NNTP
mode setting this variable has no effect. If $\fBTIN_LIBDIR\fP is set it
is prepended to $\fBTIN_ACTIVEFILE\fP.
.TP
.B NNTPSERVER
The default NNTP server to remotely read news from. This variable only
needs to be set if the ''\fB\-r\fP'' command-line option is specified and
the file \fI/etc/nntpserver\fR does not exist. The ''\fB\-g\fP'' command
line option overrides $\fBNNTPSERVER\fP.
.TP
.B NNTPPORT
The NNTP TCP-port to read news from. This variable only
needs to be set if the TCP-port is not 119 (the default).
The ''\fB\-p\fP'' command-line option overrides $\fBNNTPPORT\fP.
.TP
.B DISTRIBUTION
Set the article header field ''Distribution:'' to the contents of the
variable instead of the system default.
.TP
.B ISO2ASC
Set the ISO to ASCII charset decoding table character to use in decoding
an article text. Values can range from 0 to 6.
.\" TODO: short document the different tables (doc/iso2asc.txt) here
.TP
.B ORGANIZATION
Set the article header field ''Organization:'' to the contents of the
variable instead of the system default. If reading news on an Apollo
DomainOS machine the environment variable $\fBNEWSORG\fP has to be used
instead of $\fBORGANIZATION\fP.
.TP
.B NEWSORG (DomainOS)
DomainOS specific, same as $\fBORGANIZATION\fP on other OSs (see above).
.TP
.B REPLYTO
Set the article header field ''Reply\-To:'' to the return address specified
by the variable. This is useful if you wish to receive replies at a
different address.
.TP
.B NAME
Overrides the full name given in the gecos-files in \fI/etc/passwd\fR, see
also \fBmail_address\fP.
.TP
.B REALNAME
Same as $\fBNAME\fP.
.TP
.B HOME
Pathname of the user's home directory. See
.BR environ (5)
for more info.
.TP
.B MAILER
This variable has precedence over the default mailer that is used in all
mailing operations within \fBtin\fP.
.TP
.B MAIL
Full path to the users mailbox.
.TP
.B VISUAL
This variable has precedence over the default editor (i.e.,
.BR vi (1))
that is used in all editing operations within \fBtin\fP (e.g., posting,
replying, follow-ups, ...). Evaluation order is
\fI${VISUAL:\-"${EDITOR:\-vi}"}\fR. See
.BR environ (5)
for more info.
.TP
.B EDITOR
If $\fBVISUAL\fP is unset, then this variable is looked up for a default
editor. If $\fBEDITOR\fP and $\fBVISUAL\fP are both unset, \fBtin\fP uses
the systems default editor (i.e.
.BR vi (1))
on UNIX-systems). See
.BR environ (5)
for more info.
.TP
.B AUTOSUBSCRIBE
A new group is checked against the list of patterns; if it matches,
\fBtin\fP subscribes the user to the group without further query.
See the section "NEWSGROUP LISTS & WILDCARDS" for an explanation of the
valid syntax. For example, setting
.sp
\fIAUTOSUBSCRIBE=comp.os.unix.*,talk.*,!talk.politics.*\fR
.sp
will automatically subscribe the user to all new groups in the comp.os.unix
hierarchy, and all talk groups other than talk.politics groups (which will
be queried for as usual). Of course this does not work if \fBtin\fP is
started with the ''\fB\-X\fP'' command-line switch.
.TP
.B AUTOUNSUBSCRIBE
Is handled like the $\fBAUTOSUBSCRIBE\fP variable, but groups matching the
list are unsubscribed from without further query. For example, setting
.sp
\fIAUTOUNSUBSCRIBE=alt.flame.*,u*,!uk.*\fR
.sp
will automatically unsubscribe the user from all new alt.flame groups and
all groups starting with u (university groups) other than UK groups (which
will be queried for as usual).
.TP
.B TMPDIR
A pathname of a directory made available for \fBtin\fP to create
temporary files.
.TP
.B MAILCAPS
This variable can be used to override the default path search for mailcap
files. See also
.BR tin (5).
.TP
.B NOMETAMAIL
Set this variable to disable the use of
.BR metamail (1)
or a replacement (e.g. metamutt).
.TP
.B MM_CHARSET
.TP
.B ISPELL
Set this variable to point to
.BR ispell (1)
or a replacement and its cmd-line options.
.TP
.B PGPOPTS
Define any additional options that you wish to pass to your
.BR pgp (1)
or
.BR gpg (1)
program.
.TP
.B PGPPATH
Override the name of the
.BR pgp (1)
directory in \fB$HOME\fP that holds your keys etc..
.TP
.B GNUPGHOME
Override the name of the
.BR gpg (1)
directory in \fB$HOME\fP that holds your keys etc..
.TP
.B LC_CTYPE
This variable determines the
.BR locale (5)
category for character handling functions. Usually it determines the
character classes for pattern matching character classification and case
conversion. Currently this is not true for \fBtin\fP (which temporary
unsets \fB$LC_CTYPE\fP right before any match is done to avoid confusion).
It's value should be of the form
\fIlanguage\fR[\fI_territory\fR][\fI.codeset\fR][\fI@modifier\fR]. See
.BR environ (5)
for more information.
.\" TODO: document LC_CTYPEs influence on
.\"       ~/.tin/keymap.*, 8bit char display, ...
.TP
.B LC_MESSAGES
Formats of informative and diagnostic messages and interactive responses.
It's value should be of the form
\fIlanguage\fR[\fI_territory\fR][\fI.codeset\fR][\fI@modifier\fR]. See
.BR locale (5)
and
.BR environ (5)
for more information.
.TP
.B LC_TIME
Date and time formats. It's value should be of the form
\fIlanguage\fR[\fI_territory\fR][\fI.codeset\fR][\fI@modifier\fR]. See
.BR locale (5)
and
.BR environ (5)
for more information.
.TP
.B LC_ALL
This variable overrides the value of the \fB$LANG\fP variable and any
other \fB$LC_\fP variable. It's value should be of the form
\fIlanguage\fR[\fI_territory\fR][\fI.codeset\fR]. See
.BR locale (5)
and
.BR environ (5)
for more information.
.TP
.B LANG
This variable determines the
.BR locale (5)
category for any category not specifically selected with a variable
starting with \fB$LC_\fP. It's value should be of the form
\fIlanguage\fR[\fI_territory\fR][\fI.codeset\fR]. See
.BR environ (5)
for more information.
.TP
.B COLUMNS
A decimal integer > 0 used to indicate the user's preferred width in column
positions for the terminal screen or window. If this variable is unset or
null, the implementation determines the number of columns, appropriate for
the terminal or window. When \fB$COLUMNS\fP is set, any terminal-width
information implied by \fB$TERM\fP will be overridden. Users and portable
applications should not set \fB$COLUMNS\fP unless they wish to override the
system selection and produce output unrelated to the terminal
characteristics.
.TP
.B LINES
A decimal integer > 0 used to indicate the user's preferred number of lines
on a page or the vertical screen or window size in lines. A line in this
case is a vertical measure large enough to hold the tallest character in the
character set being displayed. If this variable is unset or null, the
implementation determines the number of lines, appropriate for the terminal
or window. When \fB$LINES\fP is set, any terminal-height information implied
by \fB$TERM\fP will be overridden. Users and portable applications should
not set \fB$LINES\fP unless they wish to override the system selection.
.TP
.B TERM
The type of terminal in use. This is used when looking up termcap sequences.
See
.BR environ (5)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.\" TODO: add missing, sort useful, document in detail
.SH SIGNALS
.B tin
handles a couple of signals:
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Terminate gracefully.
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Terminate gracefully.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Terminate gracefully but do not restore tty.
.TP
.B SIGUSR2
Write out \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR:\-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR-file.
.\"
.\"
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" give an overview of the most common error messages and how to cope with
.\" them.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH SECURITY
When \fBtin\fP is started in debug mode (''\fB\-D n\fP'') it will create
world readable files in \fB$TMPDIR\fP which may contain the users NNTP
password in cleartext. On multiuser-systems \fB$TMPDIR\fP should be set
to a safe location before starting tin in debug mode (e.g.
\fBTMPDIR=$HOME tin \-D 1\fP).
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.B tin
does conform to the Base Definitions volume of IEEE Std 1003.1-2001, Section
12, Utility Conventions (Utility Argument Syntax, Utility Syntax Guidelines).
.\" - RFC2045, RFC2047, RFC2980, RFC3977, RFC4643, RFC5322
.\"   RFC5536, RFC5537 or whatever
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
Regular expression support is provided by the PCRE library package
.BR pcre (3),
which is open source software, written by Philip Hazel, and copyright
by the University of Cambridge, England.
.br
ftp://ftp.csx.cam.ac.uk/pub/software/programming/pcre/
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
\fBCNews\fP NNTPd,
.BR noffle (1)
(<= V1.0-pre5) and
.BR NewsCache
(<= V1.1.91) can't handle pipelined GROUP commands. If you run into
trouble with any of the mentioned servers define
DISABLE_PIPELINING in include/autoconf.h and recompile.
.br
Before mailing a bug-report to <tin\-bugs@tin.org> please check if you
are using the latest (stable) release, and if not, please upgrade
first! Have a look a the doc/TODO file for known bugs. If you still
think you've found a bug, please use the \fBBugReport\fP ('\fBR\fP')
function and write in English. Please do NOT enclose a core-file in
your bugreport until we request it.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
\fBtin\fP is based on the
.BR tass (1)
newsreader that was developed by Rich Skrenta and posted to alt.sources in
March 1991; its first version was released on August 23rd 1991.
.BR tass (1)
itself was heavily influenced by notesfiles a public domain UNIX version of
PLATO Notes, developed at the University of Illinois by Ray Essick and Rob
Kolstad in 1982. For a version overview see
<http://www.tin.org/history.html>.
.\"
.\"
.SH CREDITS
.PP
.IP "Rich Skrenta"
author of
.BR tass (1)
v3.2 which this newsreader used as its base.
.IP "Bill Davidsen"
author of envarg.c environment variable reading routine.
.IP "Mike Gleason"
author of sigfile.c random signature generation routines.
.IP "Markus Kuhn <Markus.Kuhn@cl.cam.ac.uk>"
author of langinfo.c, charset.c and iso2asc.txt ISO-8859-1 documentation.
.IP "Arnold Robbins"
author of strftime.c date formatting routine.
.IP "Rich Salz"
author of wildmat.c pattern matching and parsdate.y date parsing routines.
.IP "Dave Taylor"
author of curses.c from the
.BR elm (1)
mailreader.
.IP "Chris Thewalt"
author of getline.c
.BR emacs (1)
style editing routine.
.IP "Steven Madsen"
for adding
.BR pgp (1)
(Pretty Good Privacy) support.
.IP "Philip Hazel <ph10@cam.ac.uk>"
for
.BR pcre (3)
(Perl-compatible regular expression library).
.IP "Patrick Powell <papowell@astart.com>"
for
.BR snprintf (3)
and
.BR vsnprintf (3)
fallbacks.
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.TP 1i
Iain Lea <iain@bricbrac.de>
.\"
.\"
.SH MAINTAINER
.TP 1i
Urs Janssen <urs@tin.org>
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cron (1),
.BR elm (1),
.BR emacs (1),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR inews (1),
.BR ispell (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR metamail (1),
.BR noffle (1),
.BR perl (1),
.BR perlre (1),
.BR pgp (1),
.BR rn (1),
.BR sendmail (1),
.BR shar (1),
.BR slrnface (1),
.BR tass (1),
.BR unshar (1),
.BR uudecode (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR xterm (1x),
.BR iconv (3),
.BR iconv_open (3),
.BR nl_langinfo (3),
.BR pcre (3),
.BR pcrepattern (3),
.BR snprintf (3),
.BR strftime (3),
.BR vsnprintf (3),
.BR wildmat (3),
.BR environ (5),
.BR locale (5),
.BR mbox (5),
.BR mmdf (5),
.BR newsoverview (5),
.BR tin (5),
.BR RFC1524 ,
.BR RFC2045 ,
.BR RFC2046 ,
.BR RFC2047 ,
.BR RFC2048 ,
.BR RFC2980 ,
.BR RFC3977 ,
.BR RFC4643 ,
.BR RFC5322 ,
.BR RFC5536 ,
.BR RFC5537
